<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Chapter 44</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="chapter-44" xml:lang="en-US">
      <h2 id="chapterheader-44">·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 44. 𐑞 ·𐑗𐑸𐑑.</h2>
    </div>
    <p>𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑿 𐑓𐑪𐑤𐑴𐑛 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑨𐑚𐑦𐑯 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑞 𐑕𐑒𐑢𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑑𐑫𐑒 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑯𐑲𐑑 𐑕𐑩𐑒𐑕𐑰𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑲𐑤𐑛 𐑮𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑻𐑐𐑩𐑕 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑮𐑵, 𐑿 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑕𐑰𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑜𐑴 𐑑 𐑩 𐑤𐑪𐑒𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑥, 𐑯 𐑚𐑮𐑦𐑙𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑑 𐑩 𐑤𐑸𐑡 𐑮𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑮𐑴𐑤 𐑝 𐑘𐑧𐑤𐑴𐑦𐑖 𐑕𐑰 𐑗𐑸𐑑𐑕, 𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑛 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑛-𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑑𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤. 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑕𐑰𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑦𐑑, 𐑿 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑕𐑰𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑛𐑦 𐑞 𐑝𐑺𐑾𐑕 𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑟 𐑯 𐑖𐑱𐑛𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑞𐑺 𐑥𐑧𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑲; 𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑕𐑤𐑴 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑛𐑦 𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑤 𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑕 𐑩𐑛𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑹𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑕𐑐𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑢𐑻 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑙𐑒. 𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑟, 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑮𐑦𐑓𐑻 𐑑 𐑐𐑲𐑤𐑟 𐑝 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑤𐑪𐑜-𐑚𐑫𐑒𐑕 𐑚𐑦𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑢𐑺𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑻 𐑕𐑧𐑑 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑰𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑯 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑗, 𐑪𐑯 𐑝𐑺𐑾𐑕 𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑼 𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑟 𐑝 𐑝𐑺𐑾𐑕 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑕, 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑗𐑼𐑛 𐑹 𐑕𐑰𐑯.</p>
    <p>𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑞𐑳𐑕 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑶𐑛, 𐑞 𐑣𐑧𐑝𐑦 𐑐𐑿𐑑𐑼 𐑤𐑨𐑥𐑐 𐑕𐑩𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑗𐑱𐑯𐑟 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑧𐑛, 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑿𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑪𐑒𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐, 𐑯 𐑓 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑖𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑜𐑤𐑰𐑥𐑟 𐑯 𐑖𐑨𐑛𐑴𐑟 𐑝 𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑟 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑮𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑮𐑬, 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑦𐑑 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑥𐑸𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑟 𐑯 𐑒𐑹𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑗𐑸𐑑𐑕, 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑦𐑟𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑤 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑷𐑤𐑕𐑴 𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑟 𐑯 𐑒𐑹𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑛𐑰𐑐𐑤𐑦 𐑥𐑸𐑒𐑑 𐑗𐑸𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑛.</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑯𐑲𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑐𐑼𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑑, 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑨𐑚𐑦𐑯, ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑞𐑳𐑕 𐑐𐑪𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑛 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑗𐑸𐑑𐑕. 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑯𐑲𐑑 𐑞𐑱 𐑢𐑻 𐑚𐑮𐑷𐑑 𐑬𐑑; 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑯𐑲𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑤 𐑥𐑸𐑒𐑕 𐑢𐑻 𐑦𐑓𐑱𐑕𐑑, 𐑯 𐑳𐑞𐑼𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑕𐑳𐑚𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑑𐑩𐑛. 𐑓 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑗𐑸𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑓𐑹 𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑣𐑦𐑥, ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑔𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑥𐑱𐑟 𐑝 𐑒𐑳𐑮𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑯 𐑧𐑛𐑦𐑟, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑝𐑿 𐑑 𐑞 𐑥𐑹 𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑩𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑦𐑖𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑩𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑦𐑨𐑒 𐑔𐑷𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑴𐑤.</p>
    <p>𐑯𐑬, 𐑑 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑓𐑫𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑒𐑢𐑱𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯𐑟, 𐑦𐑑 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥 𐑩𐑯 𐑩𐑚𐑕𐑻𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑴𐑐𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑑𐑭𐑕𐑒 𐑞𐑳𐑕 𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑒 𐑬𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑕𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑗𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑳𐑯𐑣𐑵𐑐𐑑 𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑐𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑩𐑑. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑴 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥 𐑑 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚, 𐑣𐑵 𐑯𐑿 𐑞 𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑑𐑲𐑛𐑟 𐑯 𐑒𐑳𐑮𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕; 𐑯 𐑞𐑺𐑚𐑲 𐑒𐑨𐑤𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑛𐑮𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 𐑢𐑱𐑤'𐑟 𐑓𐑵𐑛; 𐑯, 𐑷𐑤𐑕𐑴, 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑮𐑧𐑜𐑿𐑤𐑼, 𐑨𐑕𐑼𐑑𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑕𐑰𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑓 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑦𐑯 𐑐𐑼𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑼 𐑤𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛𐑟; 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑼𐑲𐑝 𐑨𐑑 𐑮𐑰𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑼𐑥𐑲𐑟𐑩𐑟, 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑩𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑟, 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑤𐑾𐑕𐑑 𐑛𐑱 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑹 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑜𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑻𐑗 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑮𐑱.</p>
    <p>𐑕𐑴 𐑩𐑖𐑫𐑼𐑛, 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑰𐑛, 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑓𐑨𐑒𐑑 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑐𐑽𐑦𐑪𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 𐑢𐑱𐑤'𐑟 𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑹𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑜𐑦𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼𐑟, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑰𐑝 𐑞𐑨𐑑, 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑣𐑰 𐑚𐑰 𐑒𐑤𐑴𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑚𐑟𐑻𐑝𐑛 𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑔𐑮𐑵𐑬𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛; 𐑢𐑻 𐑞 𐑤𐑪𐑜𐑟 𐑓 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡 𐑝 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑲𐑼 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑓𐑤𐑰𐑑 𐑒𐑺𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑲𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑚𐑰 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑒𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑪𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑺𐑾𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑑 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑣𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑙-𐑖𐑴𐑤𐑟 𐑹 𐑞 𐑓𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑕𐑢𐑪𐑤𐑴𐑟. 𐑪𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑣𐑦𐑯𐑑, 𐑩𐑑𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑑𐑕 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑑 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑒𐑑 𐑦𐑤𐑨𐑚𐑼𐑩𐑑 𐑥𐑲𐑜𐑮𐑩𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑗𐑸𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 𐑢𐑱𐑤.*</p>

    <p class="footnote">*𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑕 𐑞 𐑩𐑚𐑳𐑝 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑯, 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑑𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑦𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑹𐑯 𐑬𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑩𐑯 𐑩𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑼, 𐑦𐑖𐑿𐑛 𐑚𐑲 ·𐑤𐑧𐑓𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑩𐑯𐑑 ·𐑥𐑹𐑦, 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑯𐑨𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑤 ·𐑩𐑚𐑟𐑻𐑝𐑩𐑑𐑼𐑦, ·𐑢𐑪𐑖𐑦𐑙𐑑𐑩𐑯, 𐑱𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑤 16𐑔, 1851. 𐑚𐑲 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑼, 𐑦𐑑 𐑩𐑐𐑽𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑲𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑗𐑸𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑒𐑹𐑕 𐑝 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑰𐑖𐑩𐑯; 𐑯 𐑐𐑹𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑦𐑑 𐑸 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑼. “𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑗𐑸𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑝𐑲𐑛𐑟 𐑞 𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑓𐑲𐑝 𐑛𐑦𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑟 𐑝 𐑤𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑓𐑲𐑝 𐑛𐑦𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑟 𐑝 𐑤𐑪𐑯𐑜𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛; 𐑐𐑻𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑼𐑤𐑦 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑰𐑗 𐑝 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑑𐑕 𐑸 𐑑𐑢𐑧𐑤𐑝 𐑒𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑥𐑟 𐑓 𐑞 𐑑𐑢𐑧𐑤𐑝 𐑥𐑳𐑯𐑔𐑕; 𐑯 𐑣𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑰𐑗 𐑝 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑑𐑕 𐑸 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑟; 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑑 𐑖𐑴 𐑞 𐑯𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑼 𐑝 𐑛𐑱𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑰𐑗 𐑥𐑳𐑯𐑔 𐑦𐑯 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑑, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑑𐑵 𐑳𐑞𐑼𐑟 𐑑 𐑖𐑴 𐑞 𐑯𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑼 𐑝 𐑛𐑱𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟, 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 𐑹 𐑮𐑲𐑑, 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑕𐑰𐑯.”</p>

    <p>𐑚𐑦𐑕𐑲𐑛𐑟, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑥𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑐𐑨𐑕𐑦𐑡 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑓𐑰𐑛𐑦𐑙-𐑜𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑩𐑯𐑳𐑞𐑼, 𐑞 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟, 𐑜𐑲𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑨𐑤𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑑—𐑕𐑱, 𐑮𐑭𐑞𐑼, 𐑕𐑰𐑒𐑮𐑩𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 ·𐑛𐑱𐑦𐑑𐑦—𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑥 𐑦𐑯 <i>𐑝𐑱𐑯𐑟</i>, 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑱 𐑸 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛; 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑿𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑱 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑩 𐑜𐑦𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯-𐑤𐑲𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑰𐑝𐑦𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑯𐑴 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑛 𐑣𐑻 𐑒𐑹𐑕, 𐑚𐑲 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑗𐑸𐑑, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑑𐑲𐑞 𐑝 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑥𐑸𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑦𐑠𐑩𐑯. 𐑞𐑴, 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑒𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑟, 𐑞 𐑛𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑚𐑲 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑚𐑰 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑕𐑼𐑝𐑱𐑼'𐑟 𐑐𐑨𐑮𐑩𐑤𐑧𐑤, 𐑯 𐑞𐑴 𐑞 𐑤𐑲𐑯 𐑝 𐑩𐑛𐑝𐑭𐑯𐑕 𐑚𐑰 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑴𐑯 𐑳𐑯𐑩𐑝𐑶𐑛𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤, 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑒, 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑞 𐑸𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑮𐑼𐑦 <i>𐑝𐑱𐑯</i> 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑑 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑥, 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑥𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑓𐑿 𐑥𐑲𐑤𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑛𐑔 (𐑥𐑹 𐑹 𐑤𐑧𐑕, 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑝𐑱𐑯 𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑿𐑥𐑛 𐑑 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑹 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑒𐑑); 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑰𐑛𐑟 𐑞 𐑝𐑦𐑟𐑿𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑢𐑰𐑐 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑖𐑦𐑐'𐑕 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑-𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑟, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑜𐑤𐑲𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑥𐑨𐑡𐑦𐑒 𐑟𐑴𐑯. 𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑦𐑟, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑐𐑼𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑼 𐑕𐑰𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑚𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑔 𐑯 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑐𐑭𐑔, 𐑥𐑲𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑥𐑱 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑓𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑚𐑰 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑑 𐑓.</p>
    <p>𐑯 𐑣𐑧𐑯𐑕 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑖𐑦𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟, 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑯𐑴𐑯 𐑕𐑧𐑐𐑼𐑩𐑑 𐑓𐑰𐑛𐑦𐑙-𐑜𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑟, 𐑒𐑫𐑛 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑣𐑴𐑐 𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑼 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑮𐑱; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑒𐑮𐑪𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑢𐑲𐑛𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑝 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑢𐑰𐑯 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑜𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑫𐑛, 𐑚𐑲 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑸𐑑, 𐑕𐑴 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕 𐑯 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑱, 𐑨𐑟 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑑 𐑝 𐑩 𐑥𐑰𐑑𐑦𐑙.</p>
    <p>𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑕 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑨𐑑 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑲𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑨𐑙𐑜𐑩𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑽𐑾𐑕 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑥𐑦𐑔𐑪𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑒𐑰𐑥. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑴 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑨𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑦, 𐑐𐑼𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑕. 𐑞𐑴 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑺𐑾𐑕 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑞𐑺 𐑮𐑧𐑜𐑿𐑤𐑼 𐑕𐑰𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑓 𐑐𐑼𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑼 𐑜𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑟, 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑿 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑵𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑣𐑻𐑛𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑣𐑷𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑤𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛 𐑹 𐑤𐑪𐑯𐑜𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑘𐑽, 𐑕𐑱, 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑑𐑻𐑯 𐑬𐑑 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑲𐑛𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑦 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑻 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑞𐑺 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑰𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑰𐑟𐑩𐑯; 𐑞𐑴 𐑞𐑺 𐑸 𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑽 𐑯 𐑳𐑯𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑕𐑗𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑢𐑺 𐑞 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑺𐑦 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑐𐑮𐑵𐑝𐑛 𐑑𐑮𐑵. 𐑦𐑯 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑤, 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑸𐑒, 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑤𐑧𐑕 𐑢𐑲𐑛 𐑤𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑑, 𐑩𐑐𐑤𐑲𐑟 𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑼𐑦𐑟 𐑯 𐑣𐑻𐑥𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑞 𐑥𐑩𐑗𐑫𐑼𐑛, 𐑱𐑡𐑛 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟. 𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑴 ·𐑥𐑪𐑚𐑦 ·𐑛𐑦𐑒 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑼 𐑘𐑽 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑕𐑰𐑯, 𐑓 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑭𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑤, 𐑪𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑱𐑖𐑧𐑤 𐑜𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑾𐑯 𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑹 ·𐑝𐑪𐑤𐑒𐑱𐑯𐑴 ·𐑚𐑱 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑡𐑨𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑰𐑟 ·𐑒𐑴𐑕𐑑; 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑓𐑪𐑤𐑴, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑻 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛 𐑑 𐑝𐑦𐑟𐑦𐑑 𐑲𐑞𐑼 𐑝 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑕𐑐𐑪𐑑𐑕 𐑨𐑑 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑕𐑳𐑚𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑢𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑒𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑪𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑰𐑟𐑩𐑯, 𐑖𐑰 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑨𐑤𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑼 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑞𐑺. 𐑕𐑴, 𐑑𐑵, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑓𐑰𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑜𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑟, 𐑢𐑺 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑰𐑤𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑨𐑠𐑵𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑑𐑪𐑐𐑦𐑙-𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑯 𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯-𐑦𐑯𐑟, 𐑕𐑴 𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑒, 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑝 𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑤𐑪𐑙𐑛 𐑩𐑚𐑴𐑛. 𐑯 𐑢𐑺 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚'𐑟 𐑗𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑝 𐑩𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑦𐑖𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑪𐑚𐑡𐑧𐑒𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑞𐑼𐑑𐑵 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑕𐑐𐑴𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑝, 𐑩𐑤𐑵𐑠𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑑𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑢𐑱-𐑕𐑲𐑛, 𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑕𐑰𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑, 𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑩 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑕 𐑢𐑻 𐑣𐑦𐑟, 𐑺 𐑩 𐑐𐑼𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑼 𐑕𐑧𐑑 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑹 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕 𐑢𐑻 𐑩𐑑𐑱𐑯𐑛, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑐𐑪𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑚𐑩𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑟, 𐑯, 𐑨𐑟 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑓𐑪𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑔𐑷𐑑, 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑐𐑪𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑞 𐑯𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑 𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑩 𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦. 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑐𐑼𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑼 𐑕𐑧𐑑 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑯 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕 𐑢𐑻 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑡𐑶𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑑𐑧𐑒𐑯𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑓𐑮𐑱𐑟—𐑞 ·𐑕𐑰𐑟𐑩𐑯-𐑪𐑯-𐑞-·𐑤𐑲𐑯. 𐑓 𐑞𐑺 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑓 𐑕𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑧𐑒𐑿𐑑𐑦𐑝 𐑘𐑽𐑟, ·𐑥𐑪𐑚𐑦 ·𐑛𐑦𐑒 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑐𐑽𐑦𐑪𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛, 𐑤𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑓 𐑩𐑢𐑲𐑤, 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑯, 𐑦𐑯 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑨𐑯𐑿𐑩𐑤 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛, 𐑤𐑶𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑓 𐑩 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑝𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑕𐑲𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑟𐑴𐑛𐑦𐑨𐑒. 𐑞𐑺 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟, 𐑑𐑵, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕; 𐑞𐑺 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑝𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑦𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑰𐑛𐑟; 𐑞𐑺 𐑷𐑤𐑕𐑴 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑡𐑦𐑒 𐑕𐑐𐑪𐑑 𐑢𐑺 𐑞 𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑩𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑦𐑨𐑒 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑷𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑥𐑴𐑑𐑦𐑝 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑡𐑩𐑯𐑕. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑷𐑖𐑩𐑕 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑣𐑧𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑝𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑯 𐑳𐑯𐑤𐑶𐑑𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑝𐑦𐑡𐑦𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑗 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑮𐑵𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑴𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑳𐑯𐑓𐑷𐑤𐑑𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑑, 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑐𐑼𐑥𐑦𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑑 𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑴𐑐𐑕 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑒𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑨𐑒𐑑 𐑩𐑚𐑳𐑝 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑛, 𐑣𐑬𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑓𐑤𐑨𐑑𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑑 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑑 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑣𐑴𐑐𐑕; 𐑯𐑹 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑝𐑬 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑴 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑤𐑲𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑳𐑯𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑩𐑑 𐑣𐑸𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑑 𐑐𐑴𐑕𐑑𐑐𐑴𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑝𐑰𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑕𐑑.</p>
    <p>𐑯𐑬, 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑰𐑟𐑩𐑯-𐑪𐑯-𐑞-·𐑤𐑲𐑯. 𐑯𐑴 𐑐𐑪𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑣𐑻 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑑 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑐𐑨𐑕𐑦𐑡 𐑕𐑬𐑔𐑢𐑼𐑛𐑟, 𐑛𐑳𐑚𐑩𐑤 ·𐑒𐑱𐑐 ·𐑣𐑹𐑯, 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑮𐑳𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑟 𐑝 𐑤𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛 𐑼𐑲𐑝 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑧𐑒𐑢𐑩𐑑𐑹𐑾𐑤 ·𐑐𐑩𐑕𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒 𐑦𐑯 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑑 𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑟 𐑞𐑺. 𐑞𐑺𐑓𐑹, 𐑣𐑰 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑑 𐑓 𐑞 𐑯𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑿𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑰𐑟𐑩𐑯. 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑥𐑩𐑗𐑫𐑼 𐑬𐑼 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛'𐑟 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑨𐑛, 𐑐𐑼𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑕, 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑒𐑼𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑦𐑤𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑝𐑿 𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑧𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑟. 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑪𐑟, 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑝𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑛 𐑯 𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑦-𐑓𐑲𐑝 𐑛𐑱𐑟 𐑯 𐑯𐑲𐑑𐑕 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑣𐑦𐑥; 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑝𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑦𐑗, 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑛 𐑝 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑻𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑖𐑹, 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑱𐑯𐑾𐑕 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑑; 𐑦𐑓 𐑚𐑲 𐑗𐑭𐑯𐑕 𐑞 ·𐑢𐑲𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑝𐑱𐑒𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑰𐑟 𐑓𐑸 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑴𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑽𐑦𐑪𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑓𐑰𐑛𐑦𐑙-𐑜𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑟, 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑑𐑻𐑯 𐑳𐑐 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑮𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑮𐑬 𐑪𐑓 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑻𐑖𐑩𐑯 ·𐑜𐑳𐑤𐑓, 𐑹 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑚𐑧𐑯𐑜𐑨𐑤 ·𐑚𐑱, 𐑹 ·𐑗𐑲𐑯𐑩 ·𐑕𐑰𐑟, 𐑹 𐑦𐑯 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑣𐑷𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑮𐑱𐑕. 𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 ·𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑵𐑯𐑟, ·𐑐𐑨𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑕, ·𐑯𐑹'-·𐑢𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑟, ·𐑣𐑸𐑥𐑩𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑟, ·𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑛𐑟; 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑼 𐑯 ·𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑵𐑯, 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑚𐑤𐑴 ·𐑥𐑪𐑚𐑦 ·𐑛𐑦𐑒 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑛𐑰𐑝𐑾𐑕 𐑟𐑦𐑜-𐑟𐑨𐑜 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛-𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛'𐑟 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑯𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑜𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑱𐑒.</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑜𐑮𐑭𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑦𐑕; 𐑘𐑧𐑑, 𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑸𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑯 𐑒𐑵𐑤𐑦, 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 𐑥𐑨𐑛 𐑲𐑛𐑾, 𐑞𐑦𐑕; 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑮𐑷𐑛 𐑚𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑕𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑓 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑛, 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑚𐑰 𐑔𐑷𐑑 𐑒𐑱𐑐𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑡𐑵𐑩𐑤 𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑩𐑜𐑯𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑼, 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑢𐑲𐑑-𐑚𐑽𐑛𐑩𐑛 ·𐑥𐑳𐑓𐑑𐑦 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑔𐑮𐑪𐑙𐑛 𐑔𐑳𐑮𐑴𐑓𐑺𐑟 𐑝 ·𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑴𐑐𐑩𐑤? 𐑘𐑧𐑕. 𐑓 𐑞 𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑽 𐑕𐑯𐑴-𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑚𐑮𐑬 𐑝 ·𐑥𐑪𐑚𐑦 ·𐑛𐑦𐑒, 𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑯𐑴-𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑣𐑳𐑥𐑐, 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑳𐑯𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤. 𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑲 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑑𐑨𐑤𐑦𐑛 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤, ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑥𐑳𐑑𐑼 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓, 𐑨𐑟 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑐𐑹𐑦𐑙 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑗𐑸𐑑𐑕 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑯𐑲𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑔𐑮𐑴 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑚𐑨𐑒 𐑦𐑯 𐑮𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑦𐑟—𐑑𐑨𐑤𐑦𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑯 𐑖𐑨𐑤 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑱𐑐? 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑮𐑷𐑛 𐑓𐑦𐑯𐑟 𐑸 𐑚𐑹𐑛, 𐑯 𐑕𐑒𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑐𐑑 𐑬𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑤𐑪𐑕𐑑 𐑖𐑰𐑐'𐑕 𐑽! 𐑯 𐑣𐑽, 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑨𐑛 𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑮𐑳𐑯 𐑪𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑚𐑮𐑧𐑔𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑮𐑱𐑕; 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑩 𐑢𐑽𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑯 𐑓𐑱𐑯𐑑𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑐𐑪𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑣𐑦𐑥; 𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑴𐑐𐑩𐑯 𐑺 𐑝 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑒 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑕𐑰𐑒 𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑳𐑝𐑼 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑙𐑔. 𐑭, ·𐑜𐑪𐑛! 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑑𐑮𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑝 𐑑𐑹𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑛𐑳𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑻 𐑣𐑵 𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑿𐑥𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑳𐑯𐑩𐑗𐑰𐑝𐑛 𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑡𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑛𐑦𐑟𐑲𐑼. 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐𐑕 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑒𐑤𐑧𐑯𐑗𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟; 𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑒𐑕 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑛𐑦 𐑯𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑭𐑥𐑟.</p>
    <p>𐑪𐑓𐑩𐑯, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑓𐑹𐑕𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑥𐑩𐑒 𐑚𐑲 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑷𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑪𐑤𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑝𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑛 𐑛𐑮𐑰𐑥𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑯𐑲𐑑, 𐑢𐑦𐑗, 𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑿𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑕 𐑔𐑷𐑑𐑕 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑞 𐑛𐑱, 𐑒𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑛 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑪𐑯 𐑩𐑥𐑦𐑛 𐑩 𐑒𐑤𐑨𐑖𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑯𐑟𐑦𐑟, 𐑯 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑯 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑯 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑤𐑱𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑯, 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑞 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑔𐑮𐑪𐑚𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑲𐑓-𐑕𐑐𐑪𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑳𐑓𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑨𐑙𐑜𐑢𐑦𐑖; 𐑯 𐑢𐑧𐑯, 𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑞 𐑒𐑱𐑕, 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑮𐑦𐑗𐑵𐑩𐑤 𐑔𐑮𐑴𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑣𐑰𐑝𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑐 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑚𐑱𐑕, 𐑯 𐑩 𐑒𐑨𐑟𐑩𐑥 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑴𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑓𐑹𐑒𐑑 𐑓𐑤𐑱𐑥𐑟 𐑯 𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑯𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑖𐑪𐑑 𐑳𐑐, 𐑯 𐑩𐑒𐑻𐑕𐑩𐑛 𐑓𐑰𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑚𐑧𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑑 𐑤𐑰𐑐 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑞𐑧𐑥; 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑣𐑧𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑘𐑷𐑯𐑛 𐑚𐑦𐑯𐑰𐑔 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑩 𐑢𐑲𐑤𐑛 𐑒𐑮𐑲 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑚𐑰 𐑣𐑻𐑛 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐; 𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑜𐑤𐑺𐑦𐑙 𐑲𐑟 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑚𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑑 𐑮𐑵𐑥, 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑴 𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑱𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑩 𐑚𐑧𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑪𐑯 𐑓𐑲𐑼. 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑞𐑰𐑟, 𐑐𐑼𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑕, 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑛 𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑳𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑑𐑩𐑥𐑟 𐑝 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑤𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑯𐑩𐑕, 𐑹 𐑓𐑮𐑲𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑪𐑤𐑝, 𐑢𐑻 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑑𐑴𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑦. 𐑓, 𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟, 𐑒𐑮𐑱𐑟𐑦 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚, 𐑞 𐑕𐑒𐑰𐑥𐑦𐑙, 𐑳𐑯𐑩𐑐𐑰𐑟𐑩𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑛𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑼 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤; 𐑞𐑦𐑕 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑜𐑪𐑯 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑥𐑩𐑒, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑞 𐑱𐑡𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑴 𐑒𐑷𐑟𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑑 𐑚𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑪𐑮𐑼 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯. 𐑞 𐑤𐑨𐑑𐑼 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑦𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑩𐑤, 𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑩𐑤 𐑹 𐑕𐑴𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥; 𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐, 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑓 𐑞 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑴𐑕𐑦𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑮𐑩𐑒𐑑𐑼𐑲𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑨𐑑 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑶𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑓 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑬𐑑𐑼 𐑝𐑰𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑹 𐑱𐑡𐑩𐑯𐑑, 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑱𐑯𐑾𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑷𐑑 𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑱𐑐 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑕𐑒𐑹𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑜𐑿𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑞 𐑓𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑔𐑦𐑙, 𐑝 𐑢𐑦𐑗, 𐑓 𐑞 𐑑𐑲𐑥, 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑴 𐑤𐑪𐑙𐑜𐑼 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑜𐑮𐑩𐑤. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑛𐑳𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑦𐑕𐑑 𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑧𐑕 𐑤𐑰𐑜𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑕𐑴𐑤, 𐑞𐑺𐑓𐑹 𐑦𐑑 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑, 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚'𐑟 𐑒𐑱𐑕, 𐑘𐑰𐑤𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑐 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑔𐑷𐑑𐑕 𐑯 𐑓𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑟 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑕𐑵𐑐𐑮𐑰𐑥 𐑐𐑻𐑐𐑩𐑕; 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑐𐑻𐑐𐑩𐑕, 𐑚𐑲 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑴𐑯 𐑖𐑽 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑧𐑑𐑼𐑩𐑕𐑦 𐑝 𐑢𐑦𐑤, 𐑓𐑹𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑑𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑜𐑪𐑛𐑟 𐑯 𐑛𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑩 𐑒𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑝 𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓-𐑩𐑕𐑿𐑥𐑛, 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑴𐑯. 𐑯𐑱, 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑜𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑲𐑝 𐑯 𐑚𐑻𐑯, 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑞 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑝𐑲𐑑𐑨𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑡𐑶𐑯𐑛, 𐑓𐑤𐑧𐑛 𐑣𐑪𐑮𐑼-𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑳𐑯𐑚𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑯 𐑳𐑯𐑓𐑭𐑞𐑼𐑛 𐑚𐑻𐑔. 𐑞𐑺𐑓𐑹, 𐑞 𐑑𐑹𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑮𐑦𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑜𐑤𐑺𐑛 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑦 𐑲𐑟, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑮𐑳𐑖𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑮𐑵𐑥, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑓 𐑞 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 𐑝𐑱𐑒𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑔𐑦𐑙, 𐑩 𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑕𐑪𐑥𐑯𐑨𐑥𐑚𐑿𐑤𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙, 𐑩 𐑮𐑱 𐑝 𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑲𐑑, 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑖𐑫𐑼, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑 𐑩𐑯 𐑪𐑚𐑡𐑧𐑒𐑑 𐑑 𐑒𐑳𐑤𐑼, 𐑯 𐑞𐑺𐑓𐑹 𐑩 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑦𐑑𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓. 𐑜𐑪𐑛 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑐 𐑞𐑰, 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑥𐑨𐑯, 𐑞𐑲 𐑔𐑷𐑑𐑕 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑩 𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑗𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑰; 𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑵𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑕 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑳𐑕 𐑥𐑱𐑒𐑕 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑩 ·𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑥𐑰𐑔𐑾𐑕; 𐑩 𐑝𐑳𐑤𐑗𐑼 𐑓𐑰𐑛𐑟 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑸𐑑 𐑓 𐑧𐑝𐑼; 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑝𐑳𐑤𐑗𐑼 𐑞 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑗𐑼 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑱𐑑𐑕.</p>
  </body>
</html>
