<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Chapter 87</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="chapter-87" xml:lang="en-US">
      <h2 id="chapterheader-87">·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 87. 𐑞 ·𐑜𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑛 ·𐑸𐑥𐑭𐑛𐑩.</h2>
    </div>
    <p>𐑞 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑯 𐑯𐑼𐑴 𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑿𐑤𐑩 𐑝 ·𐑥𐑩𐑤𐑭𐑒𐑩, 𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑬𐑔-𐑰𐑕𐑑𐑢𐑼𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑑𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑹𐑦𐑟 𐑝 ·𐑚𐑻𐑥𐑩, 𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑟 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑞𐑼𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 ·𐑱𐑖𐑩. 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑿𐑩𐑕 𐑤𐑲𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑿𐑤𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑗 𐑞 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑝 ·𐑕𐑵𐑥𐑭𐑑𐑮𐑩, ·𐑡𐑭𐑝𐑩, ·𐑚𐑨𐑤𐑦, 𐑯 ·𐑑𐑰𐑥𐑹; 𐑢𐑦𐑗, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑳𐑞𐑼𐑟, 𐑓𐑹𐑥 𐑩 𐑝𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑴𐑤, 𐑹 𐑮𐑨𐑥𐑐𐑸𐑑, 𐑤𐑧𐑙𐑔𐑢𐑲𐑟 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑦𐑙 ·𐑱𐑖𐑩 𐑢𐑦𐑞 ·𐑪𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑤𐑾, 𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑝𐑲𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑳𐑯𐑚𐑮𐑴𐑒𐑩𐑯 ·𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑾𐑯 𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑔𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑛𐑩𐑛 ·𐑹𐑦𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑸𐑒𐑦𐑐𐑧𐑤𐑩𐑜𐑴𐑟. 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑮𐑨𐑥𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑽𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑕𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑨𐑤𐑦-𐑐𐑹𐑑𐑕 𐑓 𐑞 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑝𐑰𐑯𐑾𐑯𐑕 𐑝 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑕 𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟; 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑩𐑕 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑸 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑕 𐑝 ·𐑕𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑩 𐑯 ·𐑥𐑩𐑤𐑭𐑒𐑩. 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑕 𐑝 ·𐑕𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑩, 𐑗𐑰𐑓𐑤𐑦, 𐑝𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑚𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑑 ·𐑗𐑲𐑯𐑩 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑢𐑧𐑕𐑑, 𐑦𐑥𐑻𐑡 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 ·𐑗𐑲𐑯𐑩 𐑕𐑰𐑟.</p>
    <p>𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑯𐑼𐑴 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑕 𐑝 ·𐑕𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑩 𐑛𐑦𐑝𐑲𐑛 ·𐑕𐑵𐑥𐑭𐑑𐑮𐑩 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 ·𐑡𐑭𐑝𐑩; 𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑢𐑱 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑝𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑮𐑨𐑥𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑝 𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑟, 𐑚𐑳𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑚𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑦, 𐑯𐑴𐑯 𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑨𐑟 ·𐑡𐑭𐑝𐑩 ·𐑣𐑧𐑛; 𐑞𐑱 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑪𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑤 𐑜𐑱𐑑𐑢𐑱 𐑴𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑝𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑷𐑤𐑛 𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑲𐑼: 𐑯 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑷𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑧𐑤𐑔 𐑝 𐑕𐑐𐑲𐑕𐑩𐑟, 𐑯 𐑕𐑦𐑤𐑒𐑕, 𐑯 𐑡𐑵𐑩𐑤𐑟, 𐑯 𐑜𐑴𐑤𐑛, 𐑯 𐑲𐑝𐑼𐑦, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑞 𐑔𐑬𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑝 𐑞𐑨𐑑 ·𐑹𐑦𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑰 𐑸 𐑦𐑯𐑮𐑦𐑗𐑑, 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑟 𐑩 𐑕𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑝𐑦𐑠𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑯𐑱𐑗𐑼, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑠𐑼𐑟, 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛, 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑰𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑺 𐑞 𐑩𐑐𐑽𐑩𐑯𐑕, 𐑣𐑬𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑓𐑧𐑒𐑗𐑵𐑩𐑤, 𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑜𐑸𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑷𐑤-𐑜𐑮𐑭𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑯 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛. 𐑞 𐑖𐑹𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑕 𐑝 ·𐑕𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑩 𐑸 𐑳𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑤𐑲𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑛𐑪𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑽𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑹𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑜𐑸𐑛 𐑞 𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑥𐑧𐑛𐑦𐑑𐑼𐑱𐑯𐑾𐑯, 𐑞 ·𐑚𐑷𐑤𐑑𐑦𐑒, 𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑐𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑕. 𐑳𐑯𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞 ·𐑛𐑱𐑯𐑟, 𐑞𐑰𐑟 ·𐑹𐑦𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑛𐑵 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑪𐑚𐑕𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑾𐑕 𐑣𐑪𐑥𐑦𐑡 𐑝 𐑤𐑴𐑼𐑛 𐑑𐑪𐑐-𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑕𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑕 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑓 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑗𐑼𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑭𐑕𐑑, 𐑚𐑲 𐑯𐑲𐑑 𐑯 𐑚𐑲 𐑛𐑱, 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑐𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑢𐑰𐑯 𐑞 𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑝 ·𐑕𐑵𐑥𐑭𐑑𐑮𐑩 𐑯 ·𐑡𐑭𐑝𐑩, 𐑓𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑒𐑪𐑕𐑑𐑤𐑾𐑕𐑑 𐑒𐑸𐑜𐑴𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑰𐑕𐑑. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑞𐑱 𐑓𐑮𐑰𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑱𐑝 𐑩 𐑕𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑾𐑤 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞𐑦𐑕, 𐑞𐑱 𐑛𐑵 𐑚𐑲 𐑯𐑴 𐑥𐑰𐑯𐑟 𐑮𐑦𐑯𐑬𐑯𐑕 𐑞𐑺 𐑒𐑤𐑱𐑥 𐑑 𐑥𐑹 𐑕𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑛 𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑚𐑿𐑑.</p>
    <p>𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑐𐑲𐑮𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑩𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑥𐑩𐑤𐑱𐑟, 𐑤𐑻𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑞 𐑤𐑴 𐑖𐑱𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑒𐑴𐑝𐑟 𐑯 𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑑𐑕 𐑝 ·𐑕𐑵𐑥𐑭𐑑𐑮𐑩, 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑕𐑨𐑤𐑦𐑛 𐑬𐑑 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑝𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑕, 𐑓𐑽𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑚𐑿𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑞𐑺 𐑕𐑐𐑽𐑟. 𐑞𐑴 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑰𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑛𐑦 𐑗𐑨𐑕𐑑𐑲𐑟𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑞𐑱 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑰𐑝𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑝 ·𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑩𐑐𐑾𐑯 𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑟𐑼𐑟, 𐑞 𐑷𐑛𐑨𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑒𐑹𐑕𐑺𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑝 𐑤𐑱𐑑 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑; 𐑘𐑧𐑑, 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑛𐑱, 𐑢𐑰 𐑩𐑒𐑱𐑠𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑽 𐑝 ·𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑤𐑦𐑖 𐑯 ·𐑩𐑥𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑝𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑟, 𐑢𐑦𐑗, 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼𐑟, 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑹𐑕𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑹𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑯 𐑐𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑡𐑛.</p>
    <p>𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑓𐑺, 𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑖 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛, 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑬 𐑛𐑮𐑷𐑦𐑙 𐑯𐑲 𐑑 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑕; ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑐𐑻𐑐𐑩𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑐𐑭𐑕 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 ·𐑡𐑭𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑕𐑰, 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯𐑕, 𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑯𐑹𐑔𐑢𐑼𐑛𐑟, 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑯𐑴𐑯 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑓𐑮𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑽 𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑕𐑢𐑰𐑐 𐑦𐑯𐑖𐑹 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 ·𐑓𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑐𐑰𐑯 ·𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑟, 𐑯 𐑜𐑱𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑸 𐑒𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑝 ·𐑡𐑩𐑐𐑨𐑯, 𐑦𐑯 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑓 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑰𐑟𐑩𐑯 𐑞𐑺. 𐑚𐑲 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑥𐑰𐑯𐑟, 𐑞 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑯𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑜𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑙 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑕𐑢𐑰𐑐 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑯𐑴𐑯 ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑜𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛, 𐑐𐑮𐑰𐑝𐑾𐑕 𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑤𐑲𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑩𐑕𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒; 𐑢𐑺 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚, 𐑞𐑴 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦𐑢𐑺 𐑧𐑤𐑕 𐑓𐑶𐑤𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑿𐑑, 𐑓𐑻𐑥𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑜𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑨𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑑 ·𐑥𐑪𐑚𐑦 ·𐑛𐑦𐑒, 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑰 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑯𐑴𐑯 𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑩𐑯𐑑; 𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑩 𐑕𐑰𐑟𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑮𐑰𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑰 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑿𐑥𐑛 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑣𐑷𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑑.</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑣𐑬 𐑯𐑬? 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑟𐑴𐑯𐑛 𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑕𐑑, 𐑛𐑳𐑟 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑑𐑳𐑗 𐑯𐑴 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛? 𐑛𐑳𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑮𐑵 𐑛𐑮𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑺? 𐑖𐑫𐑼𐑤𐑦, 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑕𐑑𐑪𐑐 𐑓 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼. 𐑯𐑱. 𐑓 𐑩 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑑𐑲𐑥, 𐑯𐑬, 𐑞 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑕-𐑮𐑳𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑳𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑮𐑱𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑲𐑼𐑦 𐑮𐑦𐑙, 𐑯 𐑯𐑰𐑛𐑟 𐑯𐑴 𐑕𐑳𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑑'𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓. 𐑕𐑴 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚. 𐑥𐑸𐑒 𐑞𐑦𐑕, 𐑑𐑵, 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑼. 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑣𐑳𐑤𐑟 𐑸 𐑤𐑴𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑱𐑤𐑾𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑓, 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑓𐑻𐑛 𐑑 𐑓𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑹𐑝𐑟; 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛-𐑢𐑪𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑒𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑴 𐑒𐑸𐑜𐑴 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑣𐑻𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑯 𐑒𐑮𐑵, 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑧𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑕. 𐑖𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑤𐑱𐑒'𐑕 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑚𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑻 𐑨𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑤 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛. 𐑖𐑰 𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑨𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑿𐑑𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑟; 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑷𐑤𐑑𐑩𐑜𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑳𐑯𐑿𐑟𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑐𐑦𐑜-𐑤𐑧𐑛 𐑯 𐑒𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑧𐑡. 𐑖𐑰 𐑒𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑟 𐑘𐑽𐑟' 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑻. 𐑒𐑤𐑽 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑥 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼; 𐑢𐑦𐑗, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑘𐑽𐑟 𐑩𐑓𐑤𐑴𐑑, 𐑞 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑𐑼, 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑩𐑕𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒, 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑓𐑻𐑟 𐑑 𐑛𐑮𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑞 𐑚𐑮𐑨𐑒𐑦𐑖 𐑓𐑤𐑵𐑦𐑛, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑘𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑛𐑱 𐑮𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑪𐑓 𐑦𐑯 𐑒𐑭𐑕𐑒𐑕, 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑼𐑵𐑝𐑾𐑯 𐑹 ·𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑾𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑰𐑥𐑟. 𐑣𐑧𐑯𐑕 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟, 𐑞𐑨𐑑, 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑕 𐑥𐑱 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑜𐑪𐑯 𐑑 ·𐑗𐑲𐑯𐑩 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 ·𐑯𐑿 ·𐑘𐑹𐑒, 𐑯 𐑚𐑨𐑒 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯, 𐑑𐑳𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑑 𐑩 𐑕𐑒𐑹 𐑝 𐑐𐑹𐑑𐑕, 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑖𐑦𐑐, 𐑦𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑝𐑩𐑤, 𐑥𐑱 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑕𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑯 𐑝 𐑕𐑶𐑤; 𐑣𐑻 𐑒𐑮𐑵 𐑣𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑰𐑯 𐑯𐑴 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑓𐑤𐑴𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞𐑧𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑝𐑟. 𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑿 𐑒𐑨𐑮𐑦 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑞 𐑯𐑿𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑩𐑯𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑓𐑤𐑳𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑒𐑳𐑥; 𐑞𐑱 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑼—“𐑢𐑧𐑤, 𐑚𐑶𐑟, 𐑣𐑽'𐑟 𐑞 𐑸𐑒!”</p>
    <p>𐑯𐑬, 𐑨𐑟 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑗𐑼𐑛 𐑪𐑓 𐑞 𐑢𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑯 𐑒𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑝 ·𐑡𐑭𐑝𐑩, 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑯𐑽 𐑝𐑦𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑕 𐑝 ·𐑕𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑩; 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑰𐑛, 𐑨𐑟 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛, 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑩𐑜𐑯𐑲𐑟𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑩𐑯 𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑪𐑑 𐑓 𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑟𐑦𐑙; 𐑞𐑺𐑓𐑹, 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛 𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑥𐑹 𐑯 𐑥𐑹 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 ·𐑡𐑭𐑝𐑩 ·𐑣𐑧𐑛, 𐑞 𐑤𐑫𐑒-𐑬𐑑𐑕 𐑢𐑻 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑰𐑑𐑩𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑱𐑤𐑛, 𐑯 𐑨𐑛𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑦𐑖𐑑 𐑑 𐑒𐑰𐑐 𐑢𐑲𐑛 𐑩𐑢𐑱𐑒. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑴 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑯 𐑐𐑭𐑥𐑦 𐑒𐑤𐑦𐑓𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑕𐑵𐑯 𐑤𐑵𐑥𐑛 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑼𐑛 𐑚𐑬, 𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑞 𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑖 𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑯𐑳𐑓𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑺, 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑩 𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑩𐑤 𐑡𐑧𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛. 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑯𐑬𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑷𐑤 𐑔𐑷𐑑 𐑝 𐑓𐑷𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑜𐑱𐑥 𐑣𐑽𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑𐑕, 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑯𐑲 𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑛 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑕, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑳𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑥𐑼𐑦 𐑗𐑽𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑮𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑣𐑻𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑓𐑑, 𐑯 𐑺 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑩 𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑿𐑤𐑼 𐑥𐑨𐑜𐑯𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑵𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑳𐑕.</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑣𐑽 𐑚𐑰 𐑦𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑲𐑟𐑛, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑞 𐑳𐑯𐑢𐑽𐑦𐑛 𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑝 𐑤𐑱𐑑 𐑞𐑱 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑷𐑤 𐑓𐑹 𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟, 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟, 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑛 𐑝 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑺𐑾𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤 𐑛𐑦𐑑𐑨𐑗𐑑 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑟, 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑼 𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟, 𐑸 𐑯𐑬 𐑓𐑮𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑥𐑧𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑦𐑯 𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑝 𐑣𐑻𐑛𐑟, 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑦𐑥𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑴 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑩 𐑥𐑳𐑤𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑓 𐑯𐑿𐑥𐑼𐑩𐑕 𐑯𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑕𐑢𐑹𐑯 𐑕𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑥 𐑤𐑰𐑜 𐑯 𐑒𐑳𐑝𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑓 𐑥𐑿𐑗𐑵𐑩𐑤 𐑩𐑕𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑑𐑧𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯. 𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑨𐑜𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑦𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑕 𐑒𐑨𐑮𐑩𐑝𐑨𐑯𐑟, 𐑥𐑱 𐑚𐑰 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑿𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑞 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑕 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑜𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑟, 𐑿 𐑥𐑱 𐑯𐑬 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑕𐑱𐑤 𐑓 𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑕 𐑯 𐑥𐑳𐑯𐑔𐑕 𐑑𐑩𐑜𐑧𐑞𐑼, 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑩 𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑐𐑬𐑑; 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑚𐑰 𐑕𐑳𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑵𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑟 𐑔𐑬𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑪𐑯 𐑔𐑬𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑟.</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑮𐑷𐑛 𐑪𐑯 𐑚𐑴𐑔 𐑚𐑬𐑟, 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑝 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑑𐑵 𐑹 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑥𐑲𐑤𐑟, 𐑯 𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑕𐑧𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑤, 𐑦𐑥𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑣𐑭𐑓 𐑝 𐑞 𐑤𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤 𐑣𐑼𐑲𐑟𐑩𐑯, 𐑩 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑿𐑩𐑕 𐑗𐑱𐑯 𐑝 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑡𐑧𐑑𐑕 𐑢𐑻 𐑳𐑐-𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑦𐑙 𐑯 𐑕𐑐𐑸𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑯𐑵𐑯-𐑛𐑱 𐑺. 𐑳𐑯𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑐𐑻𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑼 𐑑𐑢𐑦𐑯-𐑡𐑧𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑮𐑲𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑢𐑦𐑗, 𐑛𐑦𐑝𐑲𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑑 𐑑𐑪𐑐, 𐑓𐑷𐑤 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑑𐑵 𐑚𐑮𐑭𐑯𐑗𐑩𐑟, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞 𐑒𐑤𐑧𐑓𐑑 𐑛𐑮𐑵𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑬𐑟 𐑝 𐑩 𐑢𐑦𐑤𐑴, 𐑞 𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑩𐑤 𐑓𐑹𐑢𐑼𐑛-𐑕𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑐𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑩 𐑔𐑦𐑒 𐑒𐑻𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑫𐑖 𐑝 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑑, 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑿𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑲𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑯 𐑓𐑷𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑢𐑱 𐑑 𐑤𐑰𐑢𐑼𐑛.</p>
    <p>𐑕𐑰𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛'𐑟 𐑛𐑧𐑒, 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑨𐑟 𐑖𐑰 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑮𐑲𐑟 𐑪𐑯 𐑩 𐑣𐑲 𐑣𐑦𐑤 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑰, 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑣𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑝𐑱𐑐𐑼𐑦 𐑕𐑐𐑬𐑑𐑕, 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑡𐑵𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑻𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑐 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑺, 𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑛 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑩 𐑚𐑤𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑑𐑥𐑩𐑕𐑓𐑽 𐑝 𐑚𐑤𐑵𐑦𐑖 𐑣𐑱𐑟, 𐑖𐑴𐑛 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞 𐑔𐑬𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑗𐑽𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑗𐑦𐑥𐑯𐑦𐑟 𐑝 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑛𐑧𐑯𐑕 𐑥𐑩𐑑𐑮𐑪𐑐𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑕, 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 𐑝 𐑩 𐑚𐑭𐑥𐑦 𐑷𐑑𐑳𐑥𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑥𐑹𐑯𐑦𐑙, 𐑚𐑲 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑣𐑹𐑕𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑪𐑯 𐑩 𐑣𐑲𐑑.</p>
    <p>𐑨𐑟 𐑥𐑸𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑸𐑥𐑦𐑟 𐑩𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑯 𐑳𐑯𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑲𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑟, 𐑩𐑒𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑼𐑱𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑥𐑸𐑗, 𐑷𐑤 𐑰𐑜𐑼𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑑 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑐𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑐𐑨𐑕𐑦𐑡 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑮𐑽, 𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕 𐑥𐑹 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑨𐑮𐑩𐑑𐑦𐑝 𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯; 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑕𐑴 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑝𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑓𐑤𐑰𐑑 𐑝 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑯𐑬 𐑕𐑰𐑥 𐑣𐑳𐑮𐑦𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑹𐑢𐑼𐑛 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑕; 𐑜𐑮𐑨𐑡𐑵𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑝 𐑞𐑺 𐑕𐑧𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑤, 𐑯 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑯, 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑕𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑛, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑒𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑼.</p>
    <p>𐑒𐑮𐑬𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑷𐑤 𐑕𐑱𐑤 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑞𐑧𐑥; 𐑞 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑧𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑟, 𐑯 𐑤𐑬𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑗𐑽𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑟 𐑝 𐑞𐑺 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑕𐑩𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕. 𐑦𐑓 𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑛, 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑛𐑬𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑞𐑱, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑗𐑱𐑕𐑑 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑞𐑰𐑟 ·𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑕 𐑝 ·𐑕𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑩, 𐑞 𐑝𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑐𐑤𐑶 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 ·𐑹𐑦𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑰𐑟 𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑑𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑗𐑼 𐑝 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑩 𐑓𐑿 𐑝 𐑞𐑺 𐑯𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑼. 𐑯 𐑣𐑵 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑑𐑧𐑤 𐑢𐑧𐑞𐑼, 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑒𐑪𐑙𐑜𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑒𐑨𐑮𐑩𐑝𐑨𐑯, ·𐑥𐑪𐑚𐑦 ·𐑛𐑦𐑒 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑑𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑼𐑺𐑦𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑰 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑙, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑑 𐑢𐑲𐑑-𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑓𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑪𐑮𐑩𐑯𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑕𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑲𐑩𐑥𐑰𐑟! 𐑕𐑴 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑯-𐑕𐑱𐑤 𐑐𐑲𐑤𐑛 𐑪𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑯-𐑕𐑱𐑤, 𐑢𐑰 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑛 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙, 𐑛𐑮𐑲𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑳𐑕; 𐑢𐑧𐑯, 𐑝 𐑩 𐑕𐑳𐑛𐑩𐑯, 𐑞 𐑝𐑶𐑕 𐑝 ·𐑑𐑨𐑖𐑑𐑱𐑜𐑴 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑣𐑻𐑛, 𐑤𐑬𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑬𐑼 𐑢𐑱𐑒.</p>
    <p>𐑒𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑪𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑬𐑼 𐑝𐑨𐑯, 𐑢𐑰 𐑚𐑦𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑛 𐑩𐑯𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑬𐑼 𐑮𐑽. 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑛 𐑝 𐑛𐑦𐑑𐑨𐑗𐑑 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑝𐑱𐑐𐑼𐑟, 𐑮𐑲𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑯 𐑓𐑷𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞 𐑕𐑐𐑬𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟; 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑞𐑱 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑴 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑰𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑯 𐑜𐑴; 𐑓 𐑞𐑱 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑪𐑝𐑼𐑛, 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑽𐑦𐑙. 𐑤𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑜𐑤𐑭𐑕 𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑕𐑲𐑑, ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑪𐑤𐑝𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑦𐑝𐑩𐑑-𐑣𐑴𐑤, 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑦𐑙, “𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑓𐑑 𐑞𐑺, 𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑜 𐑢𐑦𐑐𐑕 𐑯 𐑚𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑𐑕 𐑑 𐑢𐑧𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑟;—·𐑥𐑩𐑤𐑱𐑟, 𐑕𐑻, 𐑯 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑳𐑕!”</p>
    <p>𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑓 𐑑𐑵 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑤𐑻𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑦𐑣𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑟, 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑓𐑺𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑛 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑕, 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑮𐑭𐑕𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑦 ·𐑱𐑠𐑦𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑕 𐑢𐑻 𐑯𐑬 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑪𐑑 𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑿𐑑, 𐑑 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑳𐑐 𐑓 𐑞𐑺 𐑴𐑝𐑼-𐑒𐑷𐑖𐑩𐑕 𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑱. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑓𐑑 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑖 𐑤𐑰𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑣𐑻𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑪𐑑 𐑗𐑱𐑕; 𐑣𐑬 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑒𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑝 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑑𐑷𐑯𐑦 𐑓𐑦𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑔𐑮𐑪𐑐𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑕 𐑑 𐑩𐑕𐑦𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑻 𐑪𐑯 𐑑 𐑣𐑻 𐑴𐑯 𐑗𐑴𐑟𐑩𐑯 𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑿𐑑,—𐑥𐑽 𐑮𐑲𐑛𐑦𐑙-𐑢𐑦𐑐𐑕 𐑯 𐑮𐑬𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑑 𐑣𐑻, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑱 𐑢𐑻. 𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑜𐑤𐑭𐑕 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑸𐑥, ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑑-𐑯-𐑓𐑮𐑴 𐑐𐑱𐑕𐑑 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑒; 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑹𐑢𐑼𐑛 𐑑𐑻𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑗𐑱𐑕𐑑, 𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑛𐑔𐑻𐑕𐑑𐑦 𐑐𐑲𐑮𐑩𐑑𐑕 𐑗𐑱𐑕𐑦𐑙 <i>𐑣𐑦𐑥</i>; 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑓𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑦 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑩𐑚𐑳𐑝 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟. 𐑯 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑜𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑯 𐑢𐑷𐑤𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑲𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙, 𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑔𐑷𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑜𐑱𐑑 𐑤𐑱 𐑞 𐑮𐑵𐑑 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑡𐑩𐑯𐑕, 𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑛, 𐑣𐑬 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑜𐑱𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑬 𐑚𐑴𐑔 𐑗𐑱𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑯 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑗𐑱𐑕𐑑 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑧𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑧𐑯𐑛; 𐑯 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑞𐑨𐑑, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 𐑣𐑻𐑛 𐑝 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑹𐑕𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑢𐑲𐑤𐑛 𐑐𐑲𐑮𐑩𐑑𐑕 𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑣𐑿𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑱𐑔𐑦𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑛𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑻𐑯𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑗𐑽𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑪𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑺 𐑒𐑻𐑕𐑩𐑟;—𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑰𐑑𐑕 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑐𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑯, ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚'𐑟 𐑚𐑮𐑬 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑤𐑧𐑓𐑑 𐑜𐑷𐑯𐑑 𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑚𐑛, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒 𐑕𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑚𐑰𐑗 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑥𐑦 𐑑𐑲𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑯𐑷𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑑, 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑑 𐑛𐑮𐑨𐑜 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑥 𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕.</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑔𐑷𐑑𐑕 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑓𐑿 𐑝 𐑞 𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑒𐑮𐑵; 𐑯 𐑢𐑧𐑯, 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑮𐑪𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑯 𐑛𐑮𐑪𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑐𐑲𐑮𐑩𐑑𐑕 𐑩𐑕𐑑𐑻𐑯, 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑖𐑪𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑝𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑛 𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑯 ·𐑒𐑪𐑒𐑩𐑑𐑵 ·𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑵𐑥𐑭𐑑𐑮𐑩 𐑕𐑲𐑛, 𐑦𐑥𐑻𐑡𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑮𐑷𐑛 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑚𐑦𐑘𐑪𐑯𐑛; 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑞 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽𐑟 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑥𐑹 𐑑 𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑝 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑓𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐, 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑡𐑶𐑕 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑕𐑴 𐑝𐑦𐑒𐑑𐑹𐑾𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑥𐑩𐑤𐑱𐑟. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑛𐑮𐑲𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑒 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟, 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑧𐑙𐑔 𐑞𐑱 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑩𐑚𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑺 𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑛; 𐑜𐑮𐑨𐑡𐑵𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑯𐑽𐑛 𐑞𐑧𐑥; 𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛 𐑯𐑬 𐑛𐑲𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑢𐑱, 𐑢𐑻𐑛 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑐𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑯𐑴 𐑕𐑵𐑯𐑼 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑞 𐑣𐑻𐑛, 𐑚𐑲 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑿𐑥𐑛 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑯𐑴𐑑𐑦𐑓𐑲𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑒𐑰𐑤𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑻 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑞𐑧𐑥,—𐑞𐑴 𐑨𐑟 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑩 𐑥𐑲𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑮𐑽,—𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑞𐑱 𐑮𐑨𐑤𐑦𐑛 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯, 𐑯 𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑒𐑤𐑴𐑕 𐑮𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑕 𐑯 𐑚𐑩𐑑𐑨𐑤𐑾𐑯𐑟, 𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑕𐑐𐑬𐑑𐑕 𐑷𐑤 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑓𐑤𐑨𐑖𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑒𐑑 𐑚𐑱𐑩𐑯𐑧𐑑𐑕, 𐑥𐑵𐑝𐑛 𐑪𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑛𐑳𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑝𐑦𐑤𐑪𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑦.</p>
    <p>𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑑 𐑑 𐑬𐑼 𐑖𐑻𐑑𐑕 𐑯 𐑛𐑮𐑷𐑼𐑟, 𐑢𐑰 𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑨𐑙 𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑲𐑑-𐑨𐑖, 𐑯 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑕𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑬𐑼𐑟' 𐑐𐑫𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑻 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑴𐑟𐑛 𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑯𐑬𐑯𐑕 𐑞 𐑗𐑱𐑕, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑩 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑐𐑷𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑜𐑱𐑝 𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑥𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑑𐑴𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑱 𐑢𐑻 𐑯𐑬 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑤𐑵𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑝 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡 𐑐𐑼𐑐𐑤𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑦𐑯𐑻𐑑 𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑤𐑵𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑢𐑦𐑗, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑰𐑝 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑞𐑱 𐑕𐑱 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑟 𐑜𐑨𐑤𐑦𐑛. 𐑞 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑨𐑒𐑑 𐑥𐑸𐑖𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑥𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑞𐑱 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑞𐑼𐑑𐑵 𐑮𐑨𐑐𐑦𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑙, 𐑢𐑻 𐑯𐑬 𐑚𐑮𐑴𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑳𐑐 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑥𐑧𐑠𐑼𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑮𐑬𐑑; 𐑯 𐑤𐑲𐑒 ·𐑒𐑦𐑙 ·𐑐𐑹𐑩𐑕' 𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑓𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑾𐑯 𐑚𐑨𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑦𐑞 ·𐑨𐑤𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑭𐑯𐑛𐑼, 𐑞𐑱 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑜𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑨𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑯𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯. 𐑦𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑛𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑝𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑜𐑿𐑤𐑼 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑟, 𐑯 𐑱𐑥𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑞𐑼 𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑞𐑼, 𐑚𐑲 𐑞𐑺 𐑖𐑹𐑑 𐑔𐑦𐑒 𐑕𐑐𐑬𐑑𐑦𐑙𐑟, 𐑞𐑱 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑛 𐑞𐑺 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑐𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑒. 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑥𐑹 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑝 𐑞𐑺 𐑯𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑼, 𐑣𐑵, 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑰𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑨𐑮𐑩𐑤𐑲𐑟𐑛 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑻, 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑐𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑤𐑴𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼-𐑤𐑪𐑜𐑛 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑕 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑰. 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑞𐑰𐑟 ·𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 𐑓𐑤𐑪𐑒 𐑝 𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑤 𐑖𐑰𐑐, 𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑿𐑛 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 𐑐𐑭𐑕𐑗𐑼 𐑚𐑲 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑓𐑽𐑕 𐑢𐑫𐑤𐑝𐑟, 𐑞𐑱 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑐𐑪𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑧𐑕𐑦𐑝 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑥𐑱. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑩𐑒𐑱𐑠𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑑𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑨𐑮𐑩𐑒𐑑𐑼𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑝 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑻𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑗𐑼𐑟. 𐑞𐑴 𐑚𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑑𐑩𐑜𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑔𐑬𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑟, 𐑞 𐑤𐑲𐑩𐑯-𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑚𐑳𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑴𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑢𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑓𐑤𐑧𐑛 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑩 𐑕𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑣𐑹𐑕𐑥𐑩𐑯. 𐑢𐑦𐑑𐑯𐑩𐑕, 𐑑𐑵, 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑿𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙𐑟, 𐑣𐑬 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑣𐑻𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑑𐑩𐑜𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑖𐑰𐑐𐑓𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑝 𐑩 𐑔𐑾𐑑𐑼'𐑟 𐑐𐑦𐑑, 𐑞𐑱 𐑢𐑦𐑤, 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑩𐑤𐑸𐑥 𐑝 𐑓𐑲𐑼, 𐑮𐑳𐑖 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑑𐑼-𐑕𐑒𐑧𐑤𐑑𐑼 𐑓 𐑞 𐑬𐑑𐑤𐑧𐑑𐑕, 𐑒𐑮𐑬𐑛𐑦𐑙, 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙, 𐑡𐑨𐑥𐑦𐑙, 𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑹𐑕𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑨𐑖𐑦𐑙 𐑰𐑗 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑑 𐑛𐑧𐑔. 𐑚𐑧𐑕𐑑, 𐑞𐑺𐑓𐑹, 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑩𐑥𐑱𐑟𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑤𐑦 𐑜𐑨𐑤𐑦𐑛 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑳𐑕, 𐑓 𐑞𐑺 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑴 𐑓𐑪𐑤𐑦 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑰𐑕𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑻𐑔 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑬𐑑𐑛𐑳𐑯 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑛𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑥𐑧𐑯.</p>
    <p>𐑞𐑴 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟, 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑕𐑧𐑛, 𐑢𐑻 𐑦𐑯 𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑥𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑩𐑚𐑟𐑻𐑝𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑞 𐑣𐑻𐑛 𐑯𐑲𐑞𐑼 𐑩𐑛𐑝𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑯𐑹 𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑮𐑰𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑦𐑝𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕. 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑳𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑥𐑼𐑦 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑒𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑟, 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕 𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕 𐑕𐑧𐑐𐑼𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑰𐑗 𐑥𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑓 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑤𐑴𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑬𐑑𐑕𐑒𐑻𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑖𐑴𐑤. 𐑦𐑯 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑕' 𐑑𐑲𐑥, ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜'𐑟 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑓𐑤𐑳𐑙; 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑓𐑦𐑖 𐑛𐑸𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑱 𐑦𐑯 𐑬𐑼 𐑓𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑟, 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑮𐑳𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑢𐑱 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑳𐑕 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑤𐑲𐑑, 𐑕𐑑𐑽𐑛 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑓 𐑞 𐑣𐑸𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑣𐑻𐑛. 𐑞𐑴 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑥𐑵𐑝𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑒 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟, 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑯𐑴 𐑢𐑲𐑟 𐑳𐑯𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛; 𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑰𐑛 𐑦𐑟 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑷𐑤𐑢𐑱𐑟 𐑥𐑹 𐑹 𐑤𐑧𐑕 𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑕𐑦𐑐𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛; 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑛𐑳𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑥𐑹 𐑐𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑝𐑦𐑕𐑦𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑦. 𐑓 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑓𐑑 𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑼 𐑛𐑮𐑨𐑜𐑟 𐑿 𐑛𐑰𐑐𐑼 𐑯 𐑛𐑰𐑐𐑼 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑓𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑖𐑴𐑤, 𐑿 𐑚𐑦𐑛 𐑩𐑛𐑿 𐑑 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑓 𐑯 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑦𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑽𐑾𐑕 𐑔𐑮𐑪𐑚.</p>
    <p>𐑨𐑟, 𐑚𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑯 𐑛𐑧𐑓, 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑐𐑤𐑳𐑯𐑡𐑛 𐑓𐑹𐑢𐑼𐑛, 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑓 𐑚𐑲 𐑖𐑽 𐑐𐑬𐑼 𐑝 𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑛 𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑝 𐑞 𐑲𐑼𐑯 𐑤𐑰𐑗 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥; 𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑰 𐑞𐑳𐑕 𐑑𐑹 𐑩 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑜𐑨𐑖 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑰, 𐑪𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑕𐑲𐑛𐑟 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑰 𐑓𐑤𐑵, 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑱𐑟𐑛 𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑗𐑼𐑟 𐑑 𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑴 𐑮𐑳𐑖𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑳𐑕; 𐑬𐑼 𐑚𐑦𐑕𐑧𐑑 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑥𐑪𐑚𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑲𐑕-𐑲𐑤𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑑𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑦𐑕𐑑, 𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑽 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑞𐑺 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑦𐑒𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑗𐑨𐑯𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑕, 𐑯𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑥𐑱 𐑚𐑰 𐑤𐑪𐑒𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑯 𐑒𐑮𐑳𐑖𐑑.</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑩 𐑚𐑦𐑑 𐑛𐑷𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛, ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜 𐑕𐑑𐑽𐑛 𐑳𐑕 𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑦; 𐑯𐑬 𐑖𐑽𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑓 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑼 𐑛𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑒𐑮𐑪𐑕 𐑬𐑼 𐑮𐑵𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑩𐑛𐑝𐑭𐑯𐑕; 𐑯𐑬 𐑧𐑡𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑢𐑱 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞𐑨𐑑, 𐑣𐑵𐑟 𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑕𐑩𐑤 𐑓𐑤𐑵𐑒𐑕 𐑢𐑻 𐑕𐑩𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑴𐑝𐑼𐑣𐑧𐑛, 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑑𐑲𐑥, ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒 𐑕𐑑𐑫𐑛 𐑳𐑐 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑬𐑟, 𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛, 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑬𐑼 𐑢𐑱 𐑢𐑪𐑑𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑮𐑰𐑗 𐑚𐑲 𐑖𐑹𐑑 𐑛𐑸𐑑𐑕, 𐑓 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑴 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑑 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑟. 𐑯𐑹 𐑢𐑻 𐑞 𐑹𐑟𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑲𐑛𐑩𐑤, 𐑞𐑴 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑴𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑛𐑿𐑑𐑦 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑬 𐑷𐑤𐑑𐑩𐑜𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞. 𐑞𐑱 𐑗𐑰𐑓𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑑 𐑞 𐑖𐑬𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑦𐑟𐑯𐑩𐑕. “𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑱, ·𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑛𐑹!” 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 𐑢𐑳𐑯, 𐑑 𐑩 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑛𐑮𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑛𐑼𐑦 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑝 𐑩 𐑕𐑳𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑮𐑴𐑟 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑦 𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑻𐑓𐑦𐑕, 𐑯 𐑓 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑔𐑮𐑧𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑕𐑢𐑪𐑥𐑐 𐑳𐑕. “𐑣𐑸𐑛 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑘𐑹 𐑑𐑱𐑤, 𐑞𐑺!” 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 𐑩 𐑕𐑧𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑩𐑯𐑳𐑞𐑼, 𐑢𐑦𐑗, 𐑒𐑤𐑴𐑕 𐑑 𐑬𐑼 𐑜𐑳𐑯𐑩𐑤, 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑒𐑭𐑥𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑵𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯 𐑓𐑨𐑯-𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑥𐑦𐑑𐑦.</p>
    <p>𐑷𐑤 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕 𐑒𐑨𐑮𐑦 𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑾𐑕 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑝𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟, 𐑼𐑦𐑡𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑 ·𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑾𐑯𐑟, 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛 𐑛𐑮𐑳𐑜𐑟. 𐑑𐑵 𐑔𐑦𐑒 𐑕𐑒𐑢𐑺𐑟 𐑝 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑝 𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑲𐑟 𐑸 𐑕𐑑𐑬𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑤𐑧𐑯𐑗𐑑 𐑑𐑩𐑜𐑧𐑞𐑼, 𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑱 𐑒𐑮𐑪𐑕 𐑰𐑗 𐑳𐑞𐑼'𐑟 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑮𐑲𐑑 𐑨𐑙𐑜𐑩𐑤𐑟; 𐑩 𐑤𐑲𐑯 𐑝 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑤𐑧𐑙𐑔 𐑦𐑟 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑩𐑑𐑨𐑗𐑑 𐑑 𐑞 𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑚𐑤𐑪𐑒, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 𐑤𐑲𐑯 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑵𐑐𐑑, 𐑦𐑑 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑩 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯. 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑗𐑰𐑓𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑜𐑨𐑤𐑦𐑛 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑛𐑮𐑳𐑜 𐑦𐑟 𐑿𐑟𐑛. 𐑓 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑥𐑹 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑸 𐑒𐑤𐑴𐑕 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑿 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑿 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑐𐑪𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑗𐑱𐑕 𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑑𐑲𐑥. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑸 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑛𐑱 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑛; 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑿 𐑥𐑱, 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑿 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑒𐑦𐑤 𐑷𐑤 𐑿 𐑒𐑨𐑯. 𐑯 𐑦𐑓 𐑿 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑒𐑦𐑤 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑷𐑤 𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕, 𐑿 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑧𐑥, 𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑱 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑚𐑰 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼𐑢𐑼𐑛𐑟 𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑘𐑹 𐑤𐑧𐑠𐑼. 𐑣𐑧𐑯𐑕 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑞 𐑛𐑮𐑳𐑜, 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑟𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯. 𐑬𐑼 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑓𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑖𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑝 𐑞𐑧𐑥. 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑯 𐑕𐑧𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑢𐑻 𐑕𐑩𐑒𐑕𐑧𐑕𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑸𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑯 𐑢𐑰 𐑕𐑷 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑜𐑼𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑳𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑓, 𐑓𐑧𐑑𐑼𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑹𐑥𐑩𐑕 𐑕𐑲𐑛𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑑𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑛𐑮𐑳𐑜. 𐑞𐑱 𐑢𐑻 𐑒𐑮𐑨𐑥𐑐𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑥𐑨𐑤𐑦𐑓𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑗𐑱𐑯 𐑯 𐑚𐑷𐑤. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑓𐑤𐑦𐑙𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑔𐑻𐑛, 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑨𐑒𐑑 𐑝 𐑑𐑪𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑴𐑝𐑼𐑚𐑹𐑛 𐑞 𐑒𐑤𐑳𐑥𐑟𐑦 𐑢𐑫𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑚𐑤𐑪𐑒, 𐑦𐑑 𐑒𐑷𐑑 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑰𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑, 𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑑𐑹 𐑦𐑑 𐑬𐑑 𐑯 𐑒𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑩𐑢𐑱, 𐑛𐑮𐑪𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑹𐑟𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑'𐑕 𐑚𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑥 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑕𐑰𐑑 𐑕𐑤𐑦𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑣𐑦𐑥. 𐑪𐑯 𐑚𐑴𐑔 𐑕𐑲𐑛𐑟 𐑞 𐑕𐑰 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑦𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑵𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑐𐑤𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑕, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑰 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑓𐑑 𐑑𐑵 𐑹 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑛𐑮𐑷𐑼𐑟 𐑯 𐑖𐑻𐑑𐑕 𐑦𐑯, 𐑯 𐑕𐑴 𐑕𐑑𐑪𐑐𐑑 𐑞 𐑤𐑰𐑒𐑕 𐑓 𐑞 𐑑𐑲𐑥.</p>
    <p>𐑦𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑯𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑 𐑑 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑪𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑑 𐑛𐑸𐑑 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑛𐑮𐑳𐑜𐑛-𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑟, 𐑢𐑻 𐑦𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑰 𐑩𐑛𐑝𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑣𐑻𐑛, 𐑬𐑼 𐑢𐑱𐑤'𐑟 𐑢𐑱 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑖𐑑; 𐑥𐑹𐑴𐑝𐑼, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑰 𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑓𐑻𐑞𐑼 𐑯 𐑓𐑻𐑞𐑼 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑕𐑼𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑓𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑝 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑞 𐑛𐑲𐑼𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑹𐑛𐑼𐑟 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑢𐑱𐑯𐑦𐑙. 𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑞 𐑡𐑻𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯 𐑛𐑮𐑵 𐑬𐑑, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑑𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑕𐑲𐑛𐑢𐑱𐑟 𐑝𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑖𐑑; 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑑𐑱𐑐𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑹𐑕 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑸𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑥, 𐑢𐑰 𐑜𐑤𐑲𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑢𐑰𐑯 𐑑𐑵 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑼𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑸𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑖𐑴𐑤, 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑓 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑥𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑑𐑪𐑮𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑢𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑕𐑤𐑦𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑩 𐑕𐑼𐑰𐑯 𐑝𐑨𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑱𐑒. 𐑣𐑽 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑥𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑮𐑹𐑦𐑙 𐑜𐑤𐑧𐑯𐑟 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑢𐑰𐑯 𐑞 𐑬𐑑𐑼𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟, 𐑢𐑻 𐑣𐑻𐑛 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑓𐑧𐑤𐑑. 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑨𐑯𐑕 𐑞 𐑕𐑰 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑥𐑵𐑞 𐑕𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑯-𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑕𐑻𐑓𐑦𐑕, 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛 𐑩 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑒, 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑛𐑿𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑥𐑶𐑕𐑗𐑼 𐑔𐑮𐑴𐑯 𐑪𐑓 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑹 𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑩𐑑 𐑥𐑵𐑛𐑟. 𐑘𐑧𐑕, 𐑢𐑰 𐑢𐑻 𐑯𐑬 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑗𐑭𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑒𐑭𐑥 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑞𐑱 𐑕𐑱 𐑤𐑻𐑒𐑕 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑣𐑸𐑑 𐑝 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯. 𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑢𐑰 𐑚𐑦𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑛 𐑞 𐑑𐑿𐑥𐑳𐑤𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑬𐑑𐑼 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑒 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑟, 𐑯 𐑕𐑷 𐑕𐑩𐑒𐑕𐑧𐑕𐑦𐑝 𐑐𐑪𐑛𐑟 𐑝 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟, 𐑱𐑑 𐑹 𐑑𐑧𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑰𐑗, 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑜𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑯 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑥𐑳𐑤𐑑𐑦𐑐𐑤𐑲𐑛 𐑕𐑐𐑨𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑣𐑹𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑮𐑦𐑙; 𐑯 𐑕𐑴 𐑒𐑤𐑴𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑖𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑼 𐑑 𐑖𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑼, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑩 ·𐑑𐑲𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑒 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑕-𐑮𐑲𐑛𐑼 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑰𐑟𐑦𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑴𐑝𐑼-𐑸𐑗𐑑 𐑞 𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑟, 𐑯 𐑕𐑴 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑜𐑪𐑯 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑪𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑚𐑨𐑒𐑕. 𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑬𐑛 𐑝 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑴𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟, 𐑥𐑹 𐑦𐑥𐑰𐑛𐑾𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑼𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑦𐑥𐑚𐑱𐑛 𐑨𐑒𐑕𐑦𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑣𐑻𐑛, 𐑯𐑴 𐑐𐑪𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑗𐑭𐑯𐑕 𐑝 𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑱𐑐 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑨𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑩𐑓𐑹𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑳𐑕. 𐑢𐑰 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑗 𐑓 𐑩 𐑚𐑮𐑰𐑗 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑧𐑥𐑛 𐑳𐑕 𐑦𐑯; 𐑞 𐑢𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑛𐑥𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑳𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑹𐑛𐑼 𐑑 𐑖𐑳𐑑 𐑳𐑕 𐑳𐑐. 𐑒𐑰𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑼 𐑝 𐑞 𐑤𐑱𐑒, 𐑢𐑰 𐑢𐑻 𐑩𐑒𐑱𐑠𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑝𐑦𐑟𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤 𐑑𐑱𐑥 𐑒𐑬𐑟 𐑯 𐑒𐑭𐑝𐑟; 𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑯 𐑯 𐑗𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑮𐑬𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑴𐑕𐑑.</p>
    <p>𐑯𐑬, 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑵𐑕𐑦𐑝 𐑝 𐑞 𐑩𐑒𐑱𐑠𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑲𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑢𐑰𐑯 𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑪𐑤𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑑𐑼 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑟, 𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑵𐑕𐑦𐑝 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑐𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑢𐑰𐑯 𐑞 𐑝𐑺𐑾𐑕 𐑐𐑪𐑛𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑟, 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑲𐑼 𐑺𐑾 𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑡𐑳𐑙𐑒𐑗𐑼, 𐑦𐑥𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑥𐑳𐑤𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛, 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑰𐑕𐑑 𐑑𐑵 𐑹 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑕𐑒𐑢𐑺 𐑥𐑲𐑤𐑟. 𐑨𐑑 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑮𐑱𐑑—𐑞𐑴 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑰𐑛 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑑𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑧𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑝—𐑕𐑐𐑬𐑑𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑳𐑝𐑼𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑬𐑼 𐑤𐑴 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑐 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑥 𐑝 𐑞 𐑣𐑼𐑲𐑟𐑩𐑯. 𐑲 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑕, 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑪𐑟, 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑓 𐑞 𐑒𐑬𐑟 𐑯 𐑒𐑭𐑝𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑐𐑻𐑐𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑪𐑒𐑑 𐑳𐑐 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑦𐑯𐑼𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑓𐑴𐑤𐑛; 𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑓 𐑞 𐑢𐑲𐑛 𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑣𐑻𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑞𐑼𐑑𐑵 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑤𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑲𐑕 𐑒𐑷𐑟 𐑝 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑕𐑑𐑪𐑐𐑦𐑙; 𐑹, 𐑐𐑪𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦, 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑴 𐑘𐑳𐑙, 𐑳𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑓𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑯 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑢𐑱 𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑽𐑾𐑯𐑕𐑑; 𐑣𐑬𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑦𐑑 𐑥𐑱 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯, 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤𐑼 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟—𐑯𐑬 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑝𐑦𐑟𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑼 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑭𐑥𐑛 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑥𐑸𐑡𐑦𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑤𐑱𐑒—𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑩 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑕 𐑓𐑽𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑯 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑓𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑕, 𐑹 𐑧𐑤𐑕 𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑚𐑦𐑗𐑸𐑥𐑛 𐑐𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑒 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑪𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑑 𐑥𐑸𐑝𐑩𐑤 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑣𐑬𐑕𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑛𐑪𐑜𐑟 𐑞𐑱 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑕𐑯𐑳𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑳𐑕, 𐑮𐑲𐑑 𐑳𐑐 𐑑 𐑬𐑼 𐑜𐑳𐑯𐑩𐑤𐑟, 𐑯 𐑑𐑳𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑧𐑥; 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑦𐑑 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑤 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑕𐑳𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑩𐑥𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑞𐑧𐑥. ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜 𐑐𐑨𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑞𐑺 𐑓𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑛𐑟; ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒 𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑨𐑗𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑚𐑨𐑒𐑕 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑓𐑽𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑞 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑢𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟, 𐑓 𐑞 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑮𐑦𐑓𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑛𐑸𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑑.</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑓𐑸 𐑚𐑦𐑯𐑰𐑔 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑕 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑻𐑓𐑦𐑕, 𐑩𐑯𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑼 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛 𐑥𐑧𐑑 𐑬𐑼 𐑲𐑟 𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑰 𐑜𐑱𐑟𐑛 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 𐑕𐑲𐑛. 𐑓, 𐑕𐑩𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑝𐑷𐑤𐑑𐑕, 𐑓𐑤𐑴𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑞 𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑯𐑻𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑳𐑞𐑼𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟, 𐑯 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑞𐑺 𐑦𐑯𐑹𐑥𐑩𐑕 𐑜𐑻𐑔 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑖𐑹𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑥𐑳𐑞𐑼𐑟. 𐑞 𐑤𐑱𐑒, 𐑨𐑟 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑑 𐑩 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑛𐑧𐑐𐑔 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑰𐑛𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑐𐑨𐑮𐑩𐑯𐑑; 𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑿𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑕𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑒𐑭𐑥𐑤𐑦 𐑯 𐑓𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑩𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑜𐑱𐑟 𐑩𐑢𐑱 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑚𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑, 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑓 𐑤𐑰𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑑𐑵 𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑝𐑟 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑑𐑲𐑥; 𐑯 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑛𐑮𐑷𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑹𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑯𐑳𐑮𐑦𐑖𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑, 𐑚𐑰 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑮𐑦𐑗𐑵𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑰𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑳𐑯𐑻𐑔𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑧𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑕;—𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑕𐑴 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑞 𐑘𐑳𐑙 𐑝 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑕𐑰𐑥 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑐 𐑑𐑩𐑢𐑹𐑛𐑟 𐑳𐑕, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑳𐑕, 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑓 𐑢𐑰 𐑢𐑻 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 𐑚𐑦𐑑 𐑝 ·𐑜𐑳𐑤𐑓𐑢𐑰𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑯𐑿-𐑚𐑹𐑯 𐑕𐑲𐑑. 𐑓𐑤𐑴𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑕𐑲𐑛𐑟, 𐑞 𐑥𐑳𐑞𐑼𐑟 𐑷𐑤𐑕𐑴 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑩𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑲𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑕. 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑒𐑢𐑽 𐑑𐑴𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑣𐑸𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑩 𐑛𐑱 𐑴𐑤𐑛, 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑥𐑧𐑠𐑼𐑛 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑓𐑹𐑑𐑰𐑯 𐑓𐑰𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑤𐑧𐑙𐑔, 𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑕 𐑓𐑰𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑜𐑻𐑔. 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑓𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑦; 𐑞𐑴 𐑨𐑟 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑕𐑒𐑺𐑕 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑳𐑝𐑼𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑻𐑒𐑕𐑩𐑥 𐑐𐑩𐑟𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑕𐑴 𐑤𐑱𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑪𐑒𐑿𐑐𐑲𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑩𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑮𐑧𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤; 𐑢𐑺, 𐑑𐑱𐑤 𐑑 𐑣𐑧𐑛, 𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑦 𐑓 𐑞 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑙, 𐑞 𐑳𐑯𐑚𐑹𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑤𐑲𐑟 𐑚𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 ·𐑑𐑸𐑑𐑼'𐑟 𐑚𐑴. 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑑 𐑕𐑲𐑛-𐑓𐑦𐑯𐑟, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑭𐑥𐑟 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑤𐑵𐑒𐑕, 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑖𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑐𐑤𐑨𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑒𐑮𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑩𐑐𐑽𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑝 𐑩 𐑚𐑱𐑚𐑦'𐑟 𐑽𐑟 𐑯𐑿𐑤𐑦 𐑼𐑲𐑝𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑓𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑯 𐑐𐑸𐑑𐑕.</p>
    <p>“𐑤𐑲𐑯! 𐑤𐑲𐑯!” 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜, 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 𐑜𐑳𐑯𐑩𐑤; “𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑑! 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑑!—𐑣𐑵 𐑤𐑲𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥! 𐑣𐑵 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑒?—𐑑𐑵 𐑢𐑱𐑤; 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑜, 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤!”</p>
    <p>“𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑘𐑰, 𐑥𐑨𐑯?” 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒.</p>
    <p>“𐑤𐑫𐑒-𐑰 𐑣𐑽,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜, 𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑛𐑬𐑯.</p>
    <p>𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑑𐑳𐑚 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑮𐑰𐑤𐑛 𐑬𐑑 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑛𐑟 𐑝 𐑓𐑨𐑞𐑩𐑥𐑟 𐑝 𐑮𐑴𐑐; 𐑨𐑟, 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑛𐑰𐑐 𐑕𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙, 𐑣𐑰 𐑓𐑤𐑴𐑑𐑕 𐑳𐑐 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯, 𐑯 𐑖𐑴𐑟 𐑞 𐑕𐑤𐑨𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑒𐑻𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑲𐑯 𐑚𐑶𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑲𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑯 𐑕𐑐𐑲𐑮𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑑𐑩𐑢𐑹𐑛𐑟 𐑞 𐑺; 𐑕𐑴 𐑯𐑬, ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒 𐑕𐑷 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑒𐑶𐑤𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑹𐑛 𐑝 ·𐑥𐑩𐑛𐑭𐑥 ·𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯, 𐑚𐑲 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑞 𐑘𐑳𐑙 𐑒𐑳𐑚 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑑𐑧𐑞𐑼𐑛 𐑑 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑛𐑨𐑥. 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑛𐑩𐑥 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑮𐑨𐑐𐑦𐑛 𐑝𐑦𐑕𐑦𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑗𐑱𐑕, 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑯𐑨𐑗𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑤𐑲𐑯, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑥𐑩𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑤𐑵𐑕, 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑨𐑙𐑜𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑣𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯, 𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑒𐑳𐑚 𐑦𐑟 𐑞𐑺𐑚𐑲 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑐𐑑. 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑒𐑮𐑩𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑰𐑟 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑛𐑲𐑝𐑳𐑤𐑡𐑛 𐑑 𐑳𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑦𐑯𐑗𐑭𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑐𐑪𐑯𐑛. 𐑢𐑰 𐑕𐑷 𐑘𐑳𐑙 ·𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯 𐑩𐑥𐑫𐑼𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑛𐑰𐑐.*</p>
    <p>*𐑞 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑷𐑤 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑖𐑰𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑳𐑯𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑓𐑦𐑖, 𐑚𐑮𐑰𐑛𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑕𐑰𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑟; 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑩 𐑡𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑥𐑱 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑚𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑰 𐑕𐑧𐑑 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑯𐑲𐑯 𐑥𐑳𐑯𐑔𐑕, 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑛𐑿𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑩 𐑑𐑲𐑥; 𐑞𐑴 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑓𐑿 𐑯𐑴𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑜𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑻𐑔 𐑑 𐑩𐑯 ·𐑰𐑕𐑷 𐑯 ·𐑡𐑱𐑒𐑩𐑚:—𐑩 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑡𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑓 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑲 𐑑𐑵 𐑑𐑰𐑑𐑕, 𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑾𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑦𐑗𐑵𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑪𐑯 𐑰𐑗 𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 𐑱𐑯𐑩𐑕; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑕 𐑞𐑧𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑝𐑟 𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑳𐑐𐑢𐑼𐑛𐑟 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞𐑨𐑑. 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑚𐑲 𐑗𐑭𐑯𐑕 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑕 𐑐𐑸𐑑𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑯𐑻𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑸 𐑒𐑳𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑼'𐑟 𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕, 𐑞 𐑥𐑳𐑞𐑼'𐑟 𐑐𐑹𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑦𐑤𐑒 𐑯 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑛 𐑮𐑲𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑳𐑤𐑼 𐑞 𐑕𐑰 𐑓 𐑮𐑪𐑛𐑟. 𐑞 𐑥𐑦𐑤𐑒 𐑦𐑟 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑕𐑢𐑰𐑑 𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑗; 𐑦𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑑𐑱𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑥𐑨𐑯; 𐑦𐑑 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑛𐑵 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑷𐑚𐑼𐑦𐑟. 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑴𐑝𐑼𐑓𐑤𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑥𐑿𐑗𐑵𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑥, 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑵𐑑 <i>𐑥𐑹 𐑣𐑴𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑩𐑥</i>.</p>
    <p>𐑯 𐑞𐑳𐑕, 𐑞𐑴 𐑕𐑼𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑯𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑯 𐑩𐑓𐑮𐑲𐑑𐑕, 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑗𐑼𐑟 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑼 𐑓𐑮𐑰𐑤𐑦 𐑯 𐑓𐑽𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑳𐑤𐑡 𐑦𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑐𐑰𐑕𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑻𐑯𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕; 𐑘𐑱, 𐑕𐑼𐑰𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑛𐑨𐑤𐑾𐑯𐑕 𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑲𐑑. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑕𐑴, 𐑩𐑥𐑦𐑛 𐑞 𐑑𐑹𐑯𐑱𐑛𐑴𐑛 ·𐑩𐑑𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑝 𐑥𐑲 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙, 𐑛𐑵 𐑲 𐑥𐑲𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑓 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑹𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑿𐑑 𐑒𐑭𐑥; 𐑯 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑐𐑪𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑩𐑕 𐑐𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑩𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑳𐑯𐑢𐑱𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑴 𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑪𐑤𐑝 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑥𐑰, 𐑛𐑰𐑐 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑯 𐑛𐑰𐑐 𐑦𐑯𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑞𐑺 𐑲 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑚𐑱𐑞 𐑥𐑰 𐑦𐑯 𐑦𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑥𐑲𐑤𐑛𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑡𐑶.</p>
    <p>𐑥𐑰𐑯𐑢𐑲𐑤, 𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑰 𐑞𐑳𐑕 𐑤𐑱 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑑, 𐑞 𐑩𐑒𐑱𐑠𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑳𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑞 𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕, 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑜𐑱𐑡𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑛𐑮𐑳𐑜𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑮𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑽 𐑝 𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑕𐑑; 𐑹 𐑐𐑪𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑹 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑤, 𐑢𐑺 𐑩𐑚𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑝 𐑮𐑵𐑥 𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑝𐑰𐑯𐑾𐑯𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑮𐑰𐑑𐑕 𐑢𐑻 𐑩𐑓𐑹𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑞𐑧𐑥. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑲𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑮𐑱𐑡𐑛 𐑛𐑮𐑳𐑜𐑛 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑯𐑬 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑚𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑸𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑴 𐑩𐑒𐑮𐑪𐑕 𐑞 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑟, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑳𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑧𐑑 𐑬𐑼 𐑲𐑟. 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑞 𐑒𐑳𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑥 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑑 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑥𐑹 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑬𐑼𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑯 𐑩𐑤𐑻𐑑, 𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑒 𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑥𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑻, 𐑚𐑲 𐑕𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑹 𐑥𐑱𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑡𐑲𐑜𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑑𐑱𐑤-𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑯. 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑳𐑯 𐑚𐑲 𐑛𐑸𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑖𐑹𐑑-𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑒𐑳𐑑𐑦𐑙-𐑕𐑐𐑱𐑛, 𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑦𐑟 𐑩𐑑𐑨𐑗𐑑 𐑩 𐑮𐑴𐑐 𐑓 𐑣𐑷𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑑 𐑚𐑨𐑒 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯. 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑢𐑵𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 (𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑰 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼𐑢𐑼𐑛𐑟 𐑤𐑻𐑯𐑛) 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑐𐑸𐑑, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑓𐑧𐑒𐑗𐑵𐑩𐑤𐑦, 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛, 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑮𐑴𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑩𐑢𐑱 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑, 𐑒𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑣𐑭𐑓 𐑝 𐑞 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯 𐑤𐑲𐑯; 𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑹𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑼𐑦 𐑨𐑜𐑩𐑯𐑦 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑵𐑯𐑛, 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑬 𐑛𐑨𐑖𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑪𐑤𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞 𐑤𐑴𐑯 𐑥𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑛𐑧𐑕𐑐𐑼𐑭𐑛𐑴 ·𐑸𐑯𐑩𐑤𐑛, 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑨𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑝 ·𐑕𐑨𐑮𐑩𐑑𐑴𐑜𐑩, 𐑒𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑦𐑙 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑥𐑱 𐑢𐑺𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑑.</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑨𐑜𐑩𐑯𐑲𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑢𐑵𐑯𐑛 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑯 𐑩𐑯 𐑩𐑐𐑷𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑳𐑓, 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑢𐑱; 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑞 𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑽 𐑣𐑪𐑮𐑼 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑐𐑲𐑼 𐑞 𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑣𐑻𐑛, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑩 𐑒𐑷𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑨𐑑 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑝𐑰𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑩𐑚𐑕𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑳𐑕. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑧𐑙𐑔 𐑢𐑰 𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑰𐑝𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑳𐑯𐑦𐑥𐑨𐑡𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑨𐑒𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑦, 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑨𐑙𐑜𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯-𐑤𐑲𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑑𐑴𐑛; 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑷𐑤𐑕𐑴 𐑮𐑳𐑯 𐑩𐑢𐑱 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑒𐑳𐑑𐑦𐑙-𐑕𐑐𐑱𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥; 𐑯 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑞 𐑓𐑮𐑰 𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 𐑮𐑴𐑐 𐑩𐑑𐑨𐑗𐑑 𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑧𐑐𐑩𐑯, 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑐𐑻𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑷𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑶𐑤𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯-𐑤𐑲𐑯 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑱𐑤, 𐑞 𐑒𐑳𐑑𐑦𐑙-𐑕𐑐𐑱𐑛 𐑦𐑑𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑢𐑻𐑒𐑑 𐑤𐑵𐑕 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑤𐑧𐑖. 𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑑𐑹𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑛𐑯𐑩𐑕, 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑬 𐑗𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑞 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼, 𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑤𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑤𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑑𐑱𐑤, 𐑯 𐑑𐑪𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑒𐑰𐑯 𐑕𐑐𐑱𐑛 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑢𐑵𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑯 𐑥𐑻𐑛𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑮𐑱𐑛𐑟.</p>
    <p>𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑑𐑼𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒 𐑪𐑚𐑡𐑧𐑒𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑣𐑻𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞𐑺 𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑼𐑦 𐑓𐑮𐑲𐑑. 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑, 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑥𐑸𐑡𐑦𐑯 𐑝 𐑬𐑼 𐑤𐑱𐑒 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑨𐑯 𐑑 𐑒𐑮𐑬𐑛 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤, 𐑯 𐑑𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑰𐑗 𐑳𐑞𐑼, 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑓 𐑤𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑣𐑭𐑓 𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑴𐑟 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑩𐑓𐑸; 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑞 𐑤𐑱𐑒 𐑦𐑑𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑨𐑯 𐑓𐑱𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑑 𐑣𐑰𐑝 𐑯 𐑕𐑢𐑧𐑤; 𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑚𐑥𐑼𐑰𐑯 𐑚𐑮𐑲𐑛𐑩𐑤-𐑗𐑱𐑥𐑚𐑼𐑟 𐑯 𐑯𐑻𐑕𐑼𐑦𐑟 𐑝𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑖𐑑; 𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑹 𐑯 𐑥𐑹 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑹𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑹 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑨𐑯 𐑑 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑥 𐑦𐑯 𐑔𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑤𐑳𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑟. 𐑘𐑧𐑕, 𐑞 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑒𐑭𐑥 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑛𐑦𐑐𐑸𐑑𐑦𐑙. 𐑩 𐑤𐑴 𐑩𐑛𐑝𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑳𐑥 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑵𐑯 𐑣𐑻𐑛; 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑑 𐑞 𐑑𐑿𐑥𐑳𐑤𐑗𐑵𐑩𐑕 𐑥𐑨𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑝 𐑚𐑤𐑪𐑒-𐑲𐑕 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑼 ·𐑣𐑳𐑛𐑕𐑩𐑯 𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑒𐑕 𐑳𐑐 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑙, 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑲𐑼 𐑣𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑑𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑦𐑯𐑼 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑼, 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑓 𐑑 𐑐𐑲𐑤 𐑞𐑧𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑝𐑟 𐑳𐑐 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑥𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑯. 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒 𐑯 ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜 𐑗𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑛 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑟; ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒 𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑻𐑯.</p>
    <p>“𐑹𐑟! 𐑹𐑟!” 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑼𐑛, 𐑕𐑰𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑥—“𐑜𐑮𐑲𐑐 𐑘𐑹 𐑹𐑟, 𐑯 𐑒𐑤𐑳𐑗 𐑘𐑹 𐑕𐑴𐑤𐑟, 𐑯𐑬! 𐑥𐑲 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛, 𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑚𐑲! 𐑖𐑳𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑪𐑓, 𐑿 ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜—𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑞𐑺!—𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑒 𐑣𐑦𐑥!—𐑣𐑦𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥! 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑳𐑐—𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑳𐑐, 𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑱 𐑕𐑴! 𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑙, 𐑥𐑧𐑯—𐑐𐑫𐑤, 𐑥𐑧𐑯; 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑞𐑺 𐑚𐑨𐑒𐑕—𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑱𐑐 𐑞𐑧𐑥!—𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑱𐑐 𐑩𐑢𐑱!”</p>
    <p>𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑬 𐑷𐑤 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑡𐑨𐑥𐑛 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑢𐑰𐑯 𐑑𐑵 𐑝𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒 𐑚𐑳𐑤𐑒𐑕, 𐑤𐑰𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑯𐑼𐑴 ·𐑛𐑸𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑧𐑤𐑟 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑢𐑰𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑤𐑧𐑙𐑔𐑕. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑛𐑧𐑕𐑐𐑼𐑩𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑢𐑰 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑖𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑩 𐑑𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑼𐑼𐑦 𐑴𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑙; 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑜𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑱 𐑮𐑨𐑐𐑦𐑛𐑤𐑦, 𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑻𐑯𐑩𐑕𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑪𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑓 𐑩𐑯𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑬𐑑𐑤𐑧𐑑. 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑤𐑼 𐑣𐑺-𐑚𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑔 𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑱𐑐𐑕, 𐑢𐑰 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑜𐑤𐑲𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑬𐑑𐑼 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑟, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑯𐑬 𐑒𐑮𐑪𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑥 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟, 𐑷𐑤 𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑥𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑓 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑼. 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑤𐑳𐑒𐑦 𐑕𐑨𐑤𐑝𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑗𐑰𐑐𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑻𐑗𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑤𐑪𐑕 𐑝 ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜'𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑑, 𐑣𐑵, 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑬𐑟 𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑒 𐑞 𐑓𐑿𐑡𐑩𐑑𐑦𐑝 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟, 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑑 𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑒𐑤𐑰𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑺-𐑧𐑛𐑦 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑑𐑪𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑩 𐑐𐑺 𐑝 𐑚𐑮𐑷𐑛 𐑓𐑤𐑵𐑒𐑕 𐑒𐑤𐑴𐑕 𐑚𐑲.</p>
    <p>𐑮𐑲𐑩𐑑𐑩𐑕 𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑹𐑛𐑼𐑛 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑿𐑯𐑦𐑝𐑻𐑕𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑯𐑬 𐑢𐑪𐑟, 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑵𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑪𐑤𐑝𐑛 𐑦𐑑𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑩 𐑕𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑥𐑵𐑝𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑; 𐑓 𐑣𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑤𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑑 𐑑𐑩𐑜𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑛𐑧𐑯𐑕 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦, 𐑞𐑱 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑯𐑿𐑛 𐑞𐑺 𐑪𐑯𐑢𐑼𐑛 𐑓𐑤𐑲𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑷𐑜𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑓𐑤𐑰𐑑𐑯𐑩𐑕. 𐑓𐑻𐑞𐑼 𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑿𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑿𐑕𐑤𐑩𐑕; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑤𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑼𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑱𐑒 𐑑 𐑐𐑦𐑒 𐑳𐑐 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑛𐑮𐑳𐑜𐑛 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑛𐑮𐑪𐑐𐑑 𐑩𐑕𐑑𐑻𐑯, 𐑯 𐑤𐑲𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑟 𐑑 𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑗 ·𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑛 𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑓𐑑. 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑓 𐑦𐑟 𐑩 𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑐𐑴𐑤, 𐑑𐑵 𐑹 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑝 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑸 𐑒𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑚𐑴𐑑; 𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑗, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑩𐑛𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑜𐑱𐑥 𐑦𐑟 𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛, 𐑸 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑳𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑓𐑤𐑴𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦 𐑝 𐑩 𐑛𐑧𐑛 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑚𐑴𐑔 𐑑 𐑥𐑸𐑒 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑰, 𐑯 𐑷𐑤𐑕𐑴 𐑨𐑟 𐑑𐑴𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑼 𐑐𐑩𐑟𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑛𐑮𐑷 𐑯𐑽.</p>
    <p>𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑳𐑤𐑑 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑤𐑴𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑑𐑦𐑝 𐑝 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑕 𐑕𐑱𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑦,—𐑞 𐑥𐑹 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑞 𐑤𐑧𐑕 𐑓𐑦𐑖. 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑛𐑮𐑳𐑜𐑛 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑗𐑼𐑛. 𐑞 𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑝𐑛 𐑑 𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑱𐑐 𐑓 𐑞 𐑑𐑲𐑥, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑩𐑯, 𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑣𐑽𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑚𐑰 𐑕𐑰𐑯, 𐑚𐑲 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑒𐑮𐑭𐑓𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛.</p>
  </body>
</html>
