<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Chapter 26</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="chapter-26" xml:lang="en-US">
      <h2 id="chapterheader-26">·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 26. 𐑯𐑲𐑑𐑕 𐑯 ·𐑕𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑼𐑟.</h2>
    </div>
    <p>𐑞 𐑗𐑰𐑓 𐑥𐑱𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛 𐑢𐑪𐑟 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒, 𐑩 𐑯𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑝 𐑝 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑, 𐑯 𐑩 ·𐑒𐑢𐑱𐑒𐑼 𐑚𐑲 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑑. 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑤𐑪𐑙, 𐑻𐑯𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑯, 𐑯 𐑞𐑴 𐑚𐑹𐑯 𐑪𐑯 𐑩𐑯 𐑲𐑕𐑦 𐑒𐑴𐑕𐑑, 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑩𐑛𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑻 𐑣𐑪𐑑 𐑤𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛𐑟, 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑤𐑧𐑖 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑸𐑛 𐑨𐑟 𐑑𐑢𐑲𐑕-𐑚𐑱𐑒𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑦𐑑. 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑐𐑹𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑟, 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑲𐑝 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑛 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑶𐑤 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑚𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑱𐑤. 𐑣𐑰 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑚𐑹𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑝 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑛𐑮𐑬𐑑 𐑯 𐑓𐑨𐑥𐑦𐑯, 𐑹 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑛𐑱𐑟 𐑓 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑱𐑥𐑩𐑕. 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑔𐑻𐑑𐑦 𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑛 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑼𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑰𐑯; 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑼𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑛𐑮𐑲𐑛 𐑳𐑐 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑦𐑟𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑵𐑐𐑻𐑓𐑤𐑵𐑩𐑕𐑯𐑩𐑕. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕, 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑔𐑦𐑯𐑯𐑩𐑕, 𐑕𐑴 𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑒, 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑯𐑴 𐑥𐑹 𐑞 𐑑𐑴𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑢𐑱𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑙𐑟𐑲𐑩𐑑𐑦𐑟 𐑯 𐑒𐑺𐑟, 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑤𐑲𐑑. 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑥𐑽𐑤𐑦 𐑞 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑛𐑧𐑯𐑕𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑯. 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑚𐑲 𐑯𐑴 𐑥𐑰𐑯𐑟 𐑦𐑤-𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑦𐑙; 𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑞 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑺𐑦. 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑘𐑫𐑼 𐑑𐑲𐑑 𐑕𐑒𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩𐑯 𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑓𐑦𐑑; 𐑯 𐑒𐑤𐑴𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑨𐑐𐑑 𐑳𐑐 𐑦𐑯 𐑦𐑑, 𐑯 𐑦𐑥𐑚𐑭𐑥𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑼 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑔 𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑙𐑔, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑮𐑰𐑝𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑓𐑲𐑛 ·𐑦𐑡𐑦𐑐𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑞𐑦𐑕 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑺𐑛 𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑻 𐑓 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑱𐑡𐑩𐑟 𐑑 𐑒𐑳𐑥, 𐑯 𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑻 𐑷𐑤𐑢𐑱𐑟, 𐑨𐑟 𐑯𐑬; 𐑓 𐑚𐑰 𐑦𐑑 ·𐑐𐑴𐑤𐑼 𐑕𐑯𐑴 𐑹 𐑑𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑛 𐑕𐑳𐑯, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑐𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑒𐑮𐑩𐑯𐑪𐑥𐑦𐑑𐑼, 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑽𐑽 𐑝𐑲𐑑𐑨𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑢𐑪𐑮𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑑 𐑛𐑵 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑒𐑤𐑲𐑥𐑩𐑑𐑕. 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑲𐑟, 𐑿 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑑 𐑕𐑰 𐑞𐑺 𐑞 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑤𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑟 𐑝 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑔𐑬𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑛-𐑓𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑐𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑒𐑭𐑥𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑓𐑮𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑤𐑲𐑓. 𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑛, 𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑛𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑯, 𐑣𐑵𐑟 𐑤𐑲𐑓 𐑓 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑑𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑐𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑥𐑲𐑥 𐑝 𐑨𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑯 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑩 𐑑𐑱𐑥 𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 𐑝 𐑕𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑟. 𐑘𐑧𐑑, 𐑓 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑸𐑛𐑦 𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑮𐑲𐑩𐑑𐑦 𐑯 𐑓𐑹𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛, 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑻 𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑨𐑑 𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑩𐑓𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑒𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑯𐑲 𐑑 𐑴𐑝𐑼𐑚𐑨𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑. 𐑳𐑯𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑖𐑦𐑧𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑕 𐑓 𐑩 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑩𐑯, 𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑿𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑛𐑰𐑐 𐑯𐑨𐑗𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑮𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑕, 𐑞 𐑢𐑲𐑤𐑛 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑤𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑲𐑓 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑞𐑺𐑓𐑹 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑪𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑲𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑑 𐑕𐑵𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑕𐑵𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑹𐑜𐑩𐑯𐑲𐑟𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑟 𐑮𐑭𐑞𐑼 𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑙, 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑣𐑬, 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑕. 𐑬𐑑𐑢𐑼𐑛 𐑐𐑹𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑢𐑼𐑛 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑢𐑻 𐑣𐑦𐑟. 𐑯 𐑦𐑓 𐑨𐑑 𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑚𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑧𐑤𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑲𐑼𐑯 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑴𐑤, 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑥𐑹 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑸-𐑩𐑢𐑱 𐑛𐑩𐑥𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑥𐑧𐑥𐑼𐑦𐑟 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑘𐑳𐑙 ·𐑒𐑱𐑐 𐑢𐑲𐑓 𐑯 𐑗𐑲𐑤𐑛, 𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑚𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑥𐑹 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑼𐑦𐑡𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑮𐑳𐑜𐑩𐑛𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑱𐑗𐑼, 𐑯 𐑴𐑐𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑓𐑻𐑞𐑼 𐑑 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑤𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑤𐑵𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑗, 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑪𐑯𐑩𐑕𐑑-𐑣𐑸𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯 𐑞 𐑜𐑳𐑖 𐑝 𐑛𐑺-𐑛𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤 𐑛𐑺𐑦𐑙, 𐑕𐑴 𐑪𐑓𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑳𐑞𐑼𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑹 𐑐𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑝𐑦𐑕𐑦𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑦. “𐑲 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑯𐑴 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑲 𐑚𐑴𐑑,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒, “𐑣𐑵 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑩𐑓𐑮𐑱𐑛 𐑝 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤.” 𐑚𐑲 𐑞𐑦𐑕, 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑑 𐑥𐑰𐑯, 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑲𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑯 𐑿𐑕𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑳𐑮𐑦𐑡 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑼𐑲𐑟𐑩𐑟 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑓𐑺 𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑥𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑛 𐑐𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑤, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑩𐑯 𐑳𐑑𐑼𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑽𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑦𐑟 𐑩 𐑓𐑸 𐑥𐑹 𐑛𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑼𐑩𐑕 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑮𐑱𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑩 𐑒𐑬𐑼𐑛.</p>
    <p>“𐑲, 𐑲,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚, 𐑞 𐑕𐑧𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑥𐑱𐑑, “𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒, 𐑞𐑺, 𐑦𐑟 𐑨𐑟 𐑒𐑺𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑩 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑿'𐑤 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑧𐑯𐑦𐑢𐑺 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑦.” 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑰 𐑖𐑨𐑤 𐑺 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑕𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑻𐑛 “𐑒𐑺𐑓𐑩𐑤” 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑲𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑥𐑰𐑯𐑟 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑿𐑟𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑩 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑤𐑲𐑒 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚, 𐑹 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑼.</p>
    <p>𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑴 𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑕𐑱𐑛𐑼 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑐𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑟; 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑒𐑳𐑮𐑦𐑡 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑩 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑦 𐑿𐑕𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑯 𐑷𐑤𐑢𐑱𐑟 𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑥𐑹𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑮𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑩𐑒𐑱𐑠𐑩𐑯𐑟. 𐑚𐑦𐑕𐑲𐑛𐑟, 𐑣𐑰 𐑔𐑷𐑑, 𐑐𐑼𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑕, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑚𐑦𐑟𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙, 𐑒𐑳𐑮𐑦𐑡 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑐𐑩𐑤 𐑬𐑑𐑓𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑣𐑻 𐑚𐑰𐑓 𐑯 𐑣𐑻 𐑚𐑮𐑧𐑛, 𐑯 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑓𐑵𐑤𐑦𐑖𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑱𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛. 𐑢𐑺𐑓𐑹 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑯𐑴 𐑓𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑦 𐑓 𐑤𐑴𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑓 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑕𐑳𐑯-𐑛𐑬𐑯; 𐑯𐑹 𐑓 𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑓𐑲𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑓𐑦𐑖 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑑𐑵 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑓𐑲𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥. 𐑓, 𐑔𐑷𐑑 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒, 𐑲 𐑨𐑥 𐑣𐑽 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑑 𐑒𐑦𐑤 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑓 𐑥𐑲 𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑙, 𐑯 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑓 𐑞𐑺𐑟; 𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑛𐑟 𐑝 𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑕𐑴 𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑯𐑿. 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑛𐑵𐑥 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯 𐑓𐑭𐑞𐑼'𐑟? 𐑢𐑺, 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑥𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑛𐑰𐑐𐑕, 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑣𐑰 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑑𐑹𐑯 𐑤𐑦𐑥𐑟 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑮𐑳𐑞𐑼?</p>
    <p>𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑥𐑧𐑥𐑼𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑯, 𐑥𐑹𐑴𐑝𐑼, 𐑜𐑦𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑑 𐑩 𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑕𐑵𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑕𐑯𐑩𐑕, 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑕𐑧𐑛; 𐑞 𐑒𐑳𐑮𐑦𐑡 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑒𐑫𐑛, 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑞𐑩𐑤𐑧𐑕, 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑓𐑤𐑳𐑮𐑦𐑖, 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑰𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑰𐑥. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑮𐑰𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑯𐑱𐑗𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑩 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑕𐑴 𐑹𐑜𐑩𐑯𐑲𐑟𐑛, 𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑑𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑽𐑾𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑧𐑥𐑚𐑮𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛; 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑯𐑱𐑗𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑓𐑱𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑤𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑯 𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑢𐑦𐑗, 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑕𐑵𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟, 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑒 𐑬𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑, 𐑯 𐑚𐑻𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑳𐑮𐑦𐑡 𐑳𐑐. 𐑯 𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑝 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑚𐑰, 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑝𐑼𐑦 𐑗𐑰𐑓𐑤𐑦, 𐑝𐑦𐑟𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑐𐑦𐑛 𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑢𐑦𐑗, 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑚𐑲𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑻𐑥 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑓𐑤𐑦𐑒𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑕𐑰𐑟, 𐑹 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑟, 𐑹 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟, 𐑹 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑝 𐑞 𐑹𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑼𐑦 𐑦𐑮𐑨𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑣𐑪𐑮𐑼𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛, 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑥𐑹 𐑑𐑼𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒, 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑪𐑟 𐑥𐑹 𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑮𐑦𐑗𐑵𐑩𐑤 𐑑𐑧𐑮𐑼𐑟, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑿 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑮𐑬 𐑝 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑮𐑱𐑡𐑛 𐑯 𐑥𐑲𐑑𐑦 𐑥𐑨𐑯.</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑻 𐑞 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑑𐑦𐑝 𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑰𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕, 𐑞 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑰𐑑 𐑩𐑚𐑱𐑕𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑐𐑫𐑼 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒'𐑕 𐑓𐑹𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛, 𐑕𐑒𐑺𐑕 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑞 𐑣𐑸𐑑 𐑑 𐑮𐑲𐑑 𐑦𐑑; 𐑓 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑩 𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑪𐑮𐑴𐑓𐑩𐑤, 𐑯𐑱 𐑖𐑪𐑒𐑦𐑙, 𐑑 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑴𐑟 𐑞 𐑓𐑷𐑤 𐑝 𐑝𐑨𐑤𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑴𐑤. 𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑥𐑱 𐑕𐑰𐑥 𐑛𐑦𐑑𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑨𐑟 𐑡𐑶𐑯𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑪𐑒-𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑟 𐑯 𐑯𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟; 𐑯𐑱𐑝𐑟, 𐑓𐑵𐑤𐑟, 𐑯 𐑥𐑻𐑛𐑼𐑼𐑟 𐑞𐑺 𐑥𐑱 𐑚𐑰; 𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑥𐑱 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑥𐑰𐑯 𐑯 𐑥𐑰𐑜𐑼 𐑓𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑟; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑯, 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑲𐑛𐑾𐑤, 𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑴 𐑯𐑴𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑯 𐑕𐑴 𐑕𐑐𐑸𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙, 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑜𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑯 𐑜𐑤𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑗𐑼, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑩𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑾𐑕 𐑚𐑤𐑧𐑥𐑦𐑖 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑧𐑤𐑴𐑟 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑮𐑳𐑯 𐑑 𐑔𐑮𐑴 𐑞𐑺 𐑒𐑪𐑕𐑑𐑤𐑾𐑕𐑑 𐑮𐑴𐑚𐑟. 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑥𐑨𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑩𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑤𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑢𐑰 𐑓𐑰𐑤 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑦𐑯 𐑬𐑼𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑝𐑟, 𐑕𐑴 𐑓𐑸 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑦𐑯 𐑳𐑕, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑨𐑒𐑑 𐑞𐑴 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑬𐑑𐑼 𐑒𐑨𐑮𐑩𐑒𐑑𐑼 𐑕𐑰𐑥 𐑜𐑪𐑯; 𐑚𐑤𐑰𐑛𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑒𐑰𐑯𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑨𐑙𐑜𐑢𐑦𐑖 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑱𐑐𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑩 𐑝𐑨𐑤𐑼-𐑮𐑵𐑦𐑯𐑛 𐑥𐑨𐑯. 𐑯𐑹 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑐𐑲𐑩𐑑𐑦 𐑦𐑑𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓, 𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑖𐑱𐑥𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑲𐑑, 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑰𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑑𐑲𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑣𐑻 𐑳𐑐𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑛𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑞 𐑐𐑼𐑥𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑟. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑷𐑜𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑲 𐑑𐑮𐑰𐑑 𐑝, 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑞 𐑛𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑒𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑯 𐑮𐑴𐑚𐑟, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑛𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑯𐑴 𐑮𐑴𐑚𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑗𐑼. 𐑞𐑬 𐑖𐑨𐑤𐑑 𐑕𐑰 𐑦𐑑 𐑖𐑲𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑸𐑥 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑰𐑤𐑛𐑟 𐑩 𐑐𐑦𐑒 𐑹 𐑛𐑮𐑲𐑝𐑟 𐑩 𐑕𐑐𐑲𐑒; 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑛𐑧𐑥𐑩𐑒𐑮𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑛𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑢𐑦𐑗, 𐑪𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟, 𐑮𐑱𐑛𐑦𐑱𐑑𐑕 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑 𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛; ·𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓! 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛 𐑨𐑚𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑵𐑑! 𐑞 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑼 𐑯 𐑕𐑼𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑓𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑛𐑦𐑥𐑪𐑒𐑮𐑩𐑕𐑦! 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑪𐑥𐑯𐑦𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑕, 𐑬𐑼 𐑛𐑦𐑝𐑲𐑯 𐑦𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑦!</p>
    <p>𐑦𐑓, 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑑 𐑥𐑰𐑯𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑯𐑼𐑟, 𐑯 𐑮𐑧𐑯𐑦𐑜𐑱𐑛𐑟 𐑯 𐑒𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑢𐑱𐑟, 𐑲 𐑖𐑨𐑤 𐑣𐑽𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑩𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑚 𐑣𐑲 𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑟, 𐑞𐑴 𐑛𐑸𐑒; 𐑢𐑰𐑝 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑡𐑦𐑒 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑟; 𐑦𐑓 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑹𐑯𐑓𐑩𐑤, 𐑐𐑼𐑗𐑨𐑯𐑕 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑩𐑚𐑱𐑕𐑑, 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑷𐑤, 𐑖𐑨𐑤 𐑨𐑑 𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑤𐑦𐑓𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑑 𐑞 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑷𐑤𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑥𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑕; 𐑦𐑓 𐑲 𐑖𐑨𐑤 𐑑𐑳𐑗 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑻𐑒𐑥𐑩𐑯'𐑟 𐑸𐑥 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑦𐑔𐑽𐑾𐑤 𐑤𐑲𐑑; 𐑦𐑓 𐑲 𐑖𐑨𐑤 𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑛 𐑩 𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑚𐑴 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑦𐑟𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑕 𐑕𐑧𐑑 𐑝 𐑕𐑳𐑯; 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑥𐑹𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑕 𐑚𐑺 𐑥𐑰 𐑬𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑦𐑑, 𐑞𐑬 𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑 ·𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑮𐑦𐑑 𐑝 ·𐑦𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑦, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑣𐑨𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑛 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑮𐑶𐑩𐑤 𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑣𐑿𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑷𐑤 𐑥𐑲 𐑒𐑲𐑯𐑛! 𐑚𐑺 𐑥𐑰 𐑬𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑦𐑑, 𐑞𐑬 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑛𐑧𐑥𐑩𐑒𐑮𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑒 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛! 𐑣𐑵 𐑛𐑦𐑛𐑕𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑓𐑿𐑟 𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑢𐑸𐑑 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑝𐑦𐑒𐑑, ·𐑚𐑳𐑯𐑘𐑩𐑯, 𐑞 𐑐𐑱𐑤, 𐑐𐑴𐑧𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑐𐑻𐑤; ·𐑞𐑬 𐑣𐑵 𐑛𐑦𐑛𐑕𐑑 𐑒𐑤𐑴𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑛𐑳𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑨𐑥𐑼𐑛 𐑤𐑰𐑝𐑟 𐑝 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑜𐑴𐑤𐑛, 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑑 𐑯 𐑐𐑷𐑐𐑼𐑛 𐑸𐑥 𐑝 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑕𐑧𐑮𐑝𐑭𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑕; ·𐑞𐑬 𐑣𐑵 𐑛𐑦𐑛𐑕𐑑 𐑐𐑦𐑒 𐑳𐑐 ·𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑵 ·𐑡𐑨𐑒𐑕𐑩𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑐𐑧𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑟; 𐑣𐑵 𐑛𐑦𐑛𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑻𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑩 𐑢𐑹-𐑣𐑹𐑕; 𐑣𐑵 𐑛𐑦𐑛𐑕𐑑 𐑔𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑣𐑲𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑩 𐑔𐑮𐑴𐑯! 𐑞𐑬 𐑣𐑵, 𐑦𐑯 𐑷𐑤 ·𐑞𐑲 𐑥𐑲𐑑𐑦, 𐑻𐑔𐑤𐑦 𐑥𐑸𐑗𐑦𐑙𐑟, 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑒𐑳𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑑 ·𐑞𐑲 𐑕𐑦𐑤𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑗𐑨𐑥𐑐𐑾𐑯𐑟 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑒𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑟; 𐑚𐑺 𐑥𐑰 𐑬𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑦𐑑, 𐑴 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛!</p>
  </body>
</html>
