<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Chapter 34</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="chapter-34" xml:lang="en-US">
      <h2 id="chapterheader-34">·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 34. 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑨𐑚𐑦𐑯-·𐑑𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤.</h2>
    </div>
    <p>𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑵𐑯; 𐑯 ·𐑛𐑴-·𐑚𐑶, 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑿𐑼𐑛, 𐑔𐑮𐑳𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑱𐑤 𐑤𐑴𐑓-𐑝-𐑚𐑮𐑧𐑛 𐑓𐑱𐑕 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑚𐑦𐑯-𐑕𐑒𐑳𐑑𐑩𐑤, 𐑩𐑯𐑬𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑼 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑹𐑛 𐑯 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑼; 𐑣𐑵, 𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑤𐑰 𐑒𐑢𐑹𐑑𐑼-𐑚𐑴𐑑, 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑯 𐑪𐑚𐑟𐑼𐑝𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑯; 𐑯 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑬 𐑥𐑿𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑤𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑥𐑵𐑞, 𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑨𐑤𐑾𐑯-𐑖𐑱𐑐𐑑 𐑑𐑨𐑚𐑤𐑩𐑑, 𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑻𐑝𐑛 𐑓 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑛𐑱𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑻𐑐𐑩𐑕 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑳𐑐𐑼 𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑲𐑝𐑼𐑦 𐑤𐑧𐑜. 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑰𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑑 𐑞 𐑑𐑲𐑛𐑦𐑙𐑟, 𐑿 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑵𐑛𐑦 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑣𐑻𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑰𐑯𐑾𐑤. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦, 𐑒𐑨𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 𐑥𐑦𐑟𐑩𐑯 𐑖𐑮𐑬𐑛𐑟, 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑑 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑒, 𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑩𐑯 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯, 𐑳𐑯𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑦𐑤𐑼𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑝𐑶𐑕, 𐑕𐑱𐑦𐑙, “𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑼, ·𐑥𐑼 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒,” 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑽𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑚𐑦𐑯.</p>
    <p>𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑧𐑒𐑴 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑤𐑑𐑩𐑯'𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑐 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑛𐑲𐑛 𐑩𐑢𐑱, 𐑯 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒, 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 ·𐑧𐑥𐑽, 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑮𐑰𐑟𐑩𐑯 𐑑 𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑴𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑰𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑞𐑧𐑯 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒 𐑮𐑬𐑟𐑩𐑟 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑩𐑑𐑵𐑛, 𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑕 𐑩 𐑓𐑿 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑟 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑞 𐑐𐑤𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑕, 𐑯, 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑩 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑝 𐑐𐑰𐑐 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑚𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑒𐑩𐑤, 𐑕𐑧𐑟, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑑𐑳𐑗 𐑝 𐑐𐑤𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑯𐑩𐑕, “𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑼, ·𐑥𐑼 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚,” 𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑞 𐑕𐑒𐑳𐑑𐑩𐑤. 𐑞 𐑕𐑧𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑛 ·𐑧𐑥𐑽 𐑤𐑬𐑯𐑡𐑩𐑟 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑢𐑲𐑤, 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑕𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑖𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑥𐑱𐑯 𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑕, 𐑑 𐑕𐑰 𐑢𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑚𐑰 𐑷𐑤 𐑮𐑲𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑹𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑮𐑴𐑐, 𐑣𐑰 𐑤𐑲𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑟 𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑕 𐑳𐑐 𐑞 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑻𐑛𐑩𐑯, 𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑮𐑨𐑐𐑦𐑛 “𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑼, ·𐑥𐑼 ·𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒,” 𐑓𐑪𐑤𐑴𐑟 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑮𐑰𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑧𐑕𐑼𐑟.</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑔𐑻𐑛 ·𐑧𐑥𐑽, 𐑯𐑬 𐑕𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑷𐑤 𐑩𐑤𐑴𐑯 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑢𐑹𐑑𐑼-𐑛𐑧𐑒, 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑟 𐑑 𐑓𐑰𐑤 𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑰𐑝𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑾𐑕 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑑; 𐑓, 𐑑𐑦𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑷𐑤 𐑕𐑹𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑯𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑕𐑹𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑛𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟, 𐑯 𐑒𐑦𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑓 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑖𐑵𐑟, 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑒𐑕 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑩 𐑖𐑸𐑐 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑯𐑶𐑟𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑕𐑒𐑢𐑷𐑤 𐑝 𐑩 𐑣𐑹𐑯𐑐𐑲𐑐 𐑮𐑲𐑑 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 ·𐑜𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑛 ·𐑑𐑻𐑒'𐑕 𐑣𐑧𐑛; 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑚𐑲 𐑩 𐑛𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑩𐑕 𐑕𐑤𐑲𐑑, 𐑐𐑦𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑨𐑐 𐑳𐑐 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑥𐑦𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑪𐑐 𐑓 𐑩 𐑖𐑧𐑤𐑓, 𐑣𐑰 𐑜𐑴𐑟 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑮𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑴 𐑓𐑸 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑰𐑕𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑟 𐑝𐑦𐑟𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑒, 𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑻𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑷𐑤 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑕𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟, 𐑚𐑲 𐑚𐑮𐑦𐑙𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑐 𐑞 𐑮𐑽 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑥𐑿𐑟𐑦𐑒. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑺 𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑚𐑦𐑯 𐑛𐑹𐑢𐑱 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑴, 𐑣𐑰 𐑐𐑷𐑟𐑩𐑟, 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑕 𐑩 𐑯𐑿 𐑓𐑱𐑕 𐑷𐑤𐑑𐑩𐑜𐑧𐑞𐑼, 𐑯, 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑, 𐑣𐑦𐑤𐑺𐑾𐑕 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 ·𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒 𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑟 ·𐑒𐑦𐑙 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚'𐑟 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑕, 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑮𐑩𐑒𐑑𐑼 𐑝 ·𐑨𐑚𐑡𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑕, 𐑹 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑤𐑱𐑝.</p>
    <p>𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑞 𐑤𐑰𐑕𐑑 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑚𐑮𐑧𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑕 𐑸𐑑𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑤𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑕𐑰-𐑿𐑕𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑟, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑴𐑐𐑩𐑯 𐑺 𐑝 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑒 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑪𐑓𐑦𐑕𐑼𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑤, 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑝𐑩𐑒𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑚𐑺 𐑞𐑧𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑝𐑟 𐑚𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑲𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑳𐑓 𐑑𐑩𐑢𐑹𐑛𐑟 𐑞𐑺 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑛𐑼; 𐑘𐑧𐑑, 𐑑𐑧𐑯 𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯, 𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑪𐑓𐑦𐑕𐑼𐑟 𐑞 𐑯𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑜𐑴 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑒𐑳𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑥𐑼𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑛𐑼'𐑟 𐑒𐑨𐑚𐑦𐑯, 𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑢𐑱 𐑞𐑺 𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑓𐑧𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑝, 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑑 𐑕𐑱 𐑛𐑧𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑒𐑩𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑯 𐑣𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑺 𐑑𐑩𐑢𐑹𐑛𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 𐑑𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤; 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑸𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑩𐑕, 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤. 𐑢𐑺𐑓𐑹 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑕? 𐑩 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑚𐑤𐑩𐑥? 𐑐𐑼𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑕 𐑯𐑪𐑑. 𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 ·𐑚𐑧𐑤𐑖𐑩𐑟𐑸, ·𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑝 ·𐑚𐑨𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑪𐑯; 𐑯 𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 ·𐑚𐑧𐑤𐑖𐑩𐑟𐑸, 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑣𐑷𐑑𐑦𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑒𐑻𐑑𐑾𐑕𐑤𐑦, 𐑞𐑺𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑑𐑳𐑗 𐑝 𐑥𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑱𐑯 𐑜𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑡𐑼. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑵 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑮𐑲𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑰𐑜𐑩𐑤 𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑮𐑦𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑲𐑛𐑟 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑝𐑩𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑼-𐑑𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑜𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑕, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑯'𐑟 𐑳𐑯𐑗𐑨𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑡𐑛 𐑐𐑬𐑼 𐑯 𐑛𐑩𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑾𐑯 𐑝 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑡𐑵𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑤𐑵𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑓 𐑞 𐑑𐑲𐑥; 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑯'𐑟 𐑮𐑶𐑩𐑤𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑑 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑟 ·𐑚𐑧𐑤𐑖𐑩𐑟𐑸'𐑟, 𐑓 ·𐑚𐑧𐑤𐑖𐑩𐑟𐑸 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑕𐑑. 𐑣𐑵 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕 𐑛𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑟, 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑑𐑱𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 ·𐑕𐑰𐑟𐑼. 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑩 𐑢𐑦𐑗𐑼𐑦 𐑝 𐑕𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑤 𐑑𐑕𐑸𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑞𐑺 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑴 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙. 𐑯𐑬, 𐑦𐑓 𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑼𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑿 𐑕𐑵𐑐𐑼𐑨𐑛 𐑞 𐑩𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑵𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑥𐑩𐑕𐑦 𐑝 𐑩 𐑖𐑦𐑐-𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑼, 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑚𐑲 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑕, 𐑿 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑛𐑦𐑮𐑲𐑝 𐑞 𐑒𐑷𐑟 𐑝 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑦𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑕𐑰-𐑤𐑲𐑓 𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑛.</p>
    <p>𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑲𐑝𐑼𐑦-𐑦𐑯𐑤𐑱𐑛 𐑑𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤, ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑲𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑥𐑿𐑑, 𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑕𐑰-𐑤𐑲𐑩𐑯 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑒𐑪𐑮𐑩𐑤 𐑚𐑰𐑗, 𐑕𐑼𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑹𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑛𐑧𐑓𐑼𐑧𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑳𐑚𐑟. 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑐𐑼 𐑑𐑻𐑯, 𐑰𐑗 𐑪𐑓𐑦𐑕𐑼 𐑢𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑕𐑻𐑝𐑛. 𐑞𐑱 𐑢𐑻 𐑨𐑟 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑗𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚; 𐑯 𐑘𐑧𐑑, 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚, 𐑞𐑺 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑑 𐑤𐑻𐑒 𐑞 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑤 𐑨𐑮𐑩𐑜𐑩𐑯𐑕. 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛, 𐑞𐑺 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑲𐑟 𐑷𐑤 𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑥𐑨𐑯'𐑟 𐑯𐑲𐑓, 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑸𐑝𐑛 𐑞 𐑗𐑰𐑓 𐑛𐑦𐑖 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑣𐑦𐑥. 𐑲 𐑛𐑵 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑴𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑓 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛 𐑞𐑱 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑓𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑕𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑪𐑚𐑟𐑼𐑝𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑕𐑴 𐑯𐑿𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑤 𐑩 𐑑𐑪𐑐𐑦𐑒 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑢𐑧𐑞𐑼. 𐑯𐑴! 𐑯 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑮𐑰𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑲𐑓 𐑯 𐑓𐑹𐑒, 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑢𐑰𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑞 𐑕𐑤𐑲𐑕 𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑓 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑤𐑪𐑒𐑑, ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑞𐑺𐑚𐑲 𐑥𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒'𐑕 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑑 𐑑𐑩𐑢𐑹𐑛𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑞 𐑥𐑱𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑰𐑝𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑰𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑴 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑰𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑭𐑥𐑟; 𐑯 𐑒𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑤𐑦; 𐑯 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑓, 𐑐𐑼𐑗𐑨𐑯𐑕, 𐑞 𐑯𐑲𐑓 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑟𐑛 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑞 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑑; 𐑯 𐑗𐑵𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑯𐑶𐑟𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦; 𐑯 𐑕𐑢𐑪𐑤𐑴𐑛 𐑦𐑑, 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯. 𐑓, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑪𐑮𐑩𐑯𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑚𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑢𐑩𐑑 𐑨𐑑 ·𐑓𐑮𐑭𐑙𐑒𐑓𐑼𐑑, 𐑢𐑺 𐑞 ·𐑡𐑻𐑥𐑩𐑯 ·𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑼𐑼 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑲𐑯𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑕𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯 ·𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑽𐑾𐑤 ·𐑦𐑤𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑼𐑟, 𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑒𐑨𐑚𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑰𐑤𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑣𐑬 𐑕𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑥 𐑥𐑰𐑤𐑟, 𐑰𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑷𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑕; 𐑯 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑑𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑓𐑼𐑚𐑨𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑝𐑼𐑕𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯; 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑛𐑳𐑥. 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑩 𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑰𐑓 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑑 𐑗𐑴𐑒𐑦𐑙 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑩 𐑮𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑩 𐑕𐑳𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑮𐑨𐑒𐑩𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑴. 𐑯 𐑐𐑫𐑼 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 ·𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒, 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑘𐑳𐑙𐑜𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑯, 𐑯 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑚𐑶 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑽𐑦 𐑓𐑨𐑥𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑸𐑑𐑦. 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑯𐑚𐑴𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑲𐑯 𐑚𐑰𐑓; 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑞 𐑛𐑮𐑳𐑥𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑕. 𐑓 ·𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒 𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑿𐑥𐑛 𐑑 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑐 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓, 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑥𐑬𐑯𐑑 𐑑 𐑤𐑸𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑦 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑜𐑮𐑰. 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑐𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑑𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤, 𐑛𐑬𐑑𐑤𐑩𐑕, 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑥𐑹 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑑 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑳𐑐 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑪𐑯𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛; 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑞𐑩𐑤𐑧𐑕, 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡 𐑑 𐑕𐑱, ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑓𐑼𐑚𐑨𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥. 𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑛 ·𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑐𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓, 𐑞 𐑗𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑢𐑻 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑕𐑴 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑨𐑟 𐑯𐑴𐑑𐑦𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑑. 𐑤𐑰𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑷𐑤, 𐑛𐑦𐑛 ·𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑿𐑥 𐑑 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑐 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑑 𐑚𐑳𐑑𐑼. 𐑢𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑣𐑰 𐑔𐑷𐑑 𐑞 𐑴𐑯𐑼𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑲𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑪𐑯 𐑩𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑒𐑤𐑪𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑤𐑽, 𐑕𐑳𐑯𐑦 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑧𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯; 𐑹 𐑢𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑣𐑰 𐑛𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑, 𐑪𐑯 𐑕𐑴 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑩 𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑥𐑸𐑒𐑩𐑑𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼𐑟, 𐑚𐑳𐑑𐑼 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑨𐑑 𐑩 𐑐𐑮𐑰𐑥𐑾𐑥, 𐑯 𐑞𐑺𐑓𐑹 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑓 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑩 𐑕𐑳𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑑𐑼𐑯; 𐑣𐑬𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟, ·𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒, 𐑩𐑤𐑨𐑕! 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑚𐑳𐑑𐑼𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑥𐑨𐑯!</p>
    <p>𐑩𐑯𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑔𐑦𐑙. 𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑐𐑻𐑕𐑩𐑯 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑼, 𐑯 ·𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑳𐑐. 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑼! 𐑓 𐑣𐑽𐑚𐑲 ·𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒'𐑕 𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑼 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑚𐑨𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑡𐑨𐑥𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑑𐑲𐑥. 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒 𐑯 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚 𐑚𐑴𐑔 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑥; 𐑯 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑞𐑱 𐑷𐑤𐑕𐑴 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑡 𐑝 𐑤𐑬𐑯𐑡𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑮𐑽. 𐑦𐑓 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯, 𐑣𐑵 𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 𐑐𐑧𐑜 𐑣𐑲𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑯 ·𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒, 𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤 𐑨𐑐𐑩𐑑𐑲𐑑, 𐑯 𐑕𐑵𐑯 𐑖𐑴𐑟 𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑑𐑩𐑥𐑟 𐑝 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑵𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑭𐑕𐑑, 𐑞𐑧𐑯 ·𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑻 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓, 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑜𐑧𐑑 𐑥𐑹 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑥𐑬𐑔𐑓𐑫𐑤𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑛𐑱; 𐑓 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑦 𐑿𐑕𐑦𐑡 𐑓 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚 𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑰𐑛 ·𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒 𐑑 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑒. 𐑞𐑺𐑓𐑹 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 ·𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕 𐑩𐑛𐑥𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑝𐑩𐑑, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑕 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑼𐑦𐑟𐑩𐑯 𐑑 𐑞 𐑛𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑩𐑯 𐑪𐑓𐑦𐑕𐑼, 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑯𐑴𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑳𐑞𐑼𐑢𐑲𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑣𐑳𐑙𐑜𐑮𐑦, 𐑥𐑹 𐑹 𐑤𐑧𐑕. 𐑓 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑱𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑴 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑰𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑳𐑙𐑜𐑼, 𐑨𐑟 𐑒𐑰𐑐 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑥𐑹𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥. 𐑐𐑰𐑕 𐑯 𐑕𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑕𐑓𐑨𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑔𐑷𐑑 ·𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒, 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑓 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑛𐑦𐑐𐑸𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑥𐑲 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑥𐑩𐑒. 𐑲 𐑨𐑥 𐑩𐑯 𐑪𐑓𐑦𐑕𐑼; 𐑚𐑳𐑑, 𐑣𐑬 𐑲 𐑢𐑦𐑖 𐑲 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑓𐑦𐑖 𐑩 𐑚𐑦𐑑 𐑝 𐑴𐑤𐑛-𐑓𐑨𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑚𐑰𐑓 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑴𐑒𐑕𐑩𐑤, 𐑨𐑟 𐑲 𐑿𐑕𐑑 𐑑 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑞 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑. 𐑞𐑺'𐑟 𐑞 𐑓𐑮𐑵𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑥𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑯𐑬; 𐑞𐑺'𐑟 𐑞 𐑝𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑜𐑤𐑹𐑦: 𐑞𐑺'𐑟 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑤𐑲𐑓! 𐑚𐑦𐑕𐑲𐑛𐑟, 𐑦𐑓 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑻 𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑥𐑽 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑩 𐑜𐑮𐑳𐑡 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 ·𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒'𐑕 𐑩𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑩𐑐𐑨𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑦, 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑑 𐑛𐑵, 𐑦𐑯 𐑹𐑛𐑼 𐑑 𐑩𐑚𐑑𐑱𐑯 𐑨𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑤 𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑡𐑩𐑯𐑕, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑑 𐑜𐑴 𐑭𐑓𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑼-𐑑𐑲𐑥, 𐑯 𐑜𐑧𐑑 𐑩 𐑐𐑰𐑐 𐑨𐑑 ·𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑚𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑒𐑲-𐑤𐑲𐑑, 𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑦𐑤𐑦 𐑯 𐑛𐑳𐑥𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑛 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑷𐑓𐑩𐑤 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚.</p>
    <p>𐑯𐑬, ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑥𐑱𐑑𐑕 𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑛 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑥𐑱 𐑚𐑰 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑑𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛'𐑟 𐑒𐑨𐑚𐑦𐑯. 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑞𐑺 𐑛𐑦𐑐𐑸𐑗𐑼, 𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑹𐑛𐑼 𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑼𐑲𐑝𐑩𐑤, 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑝𐑩𐑕 𐑒𐑤𐑪𐑔 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑒𐑤𐑽𐑛, 𐑹 𐑮𐑭𐑞𐑼 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑛 𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑣𐑳𐑮𐑦𐑛 𐑹𐑛𐑼 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑐𐑨𐑤𐑦𐑛 𐑕𐑑𐑿𐑼𐑛. 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑞 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑚𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑑 𐑞 𐑓𐑰𐑕𐑑, 𐑞𐑱 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑦𐑡𐑫𐑼𐑦 𐑤𐑧𐑜𐑩𐑑𐑰𐑟. 𐑞𐑱 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑩 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑑𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑼𐑼𐑦 𐑕𐑻𐑝𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕' 𐑣𐑷𐑤 𐑝 𐑞 𐑣𐑲 𐑯 𐑥𐑲𐑑𐑦 𐑒𐑨𐑚𐑦𐑯.</p>
    <p>𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑑 𐑞 𐑣𐑸𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑑𐑪𐑤𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑑 𐑯 𐑯𐑱𐑥𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑦𐑟𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑛𐑪𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑽𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯'𐑟 𐑑𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑲𐑼 𐑒𐑺-𐑓𐑮𐑰 𐑤𐑲𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑯 𐑰𐑟, 𐑞 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑛𐑦𐑥𐑪𐑒𐑮𐑩𐑕𐑦 𐑝 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑽𐑽 𐑓𐑧𐑤𐑴𐑟 𐑞 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽𐑟. 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑞𐑺 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑟, 𐑞 𐑥𐑱𐑑𐑕, 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑩𐑓𐑮𐑱𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑯𐑡𐑩𐑟 𐑝 𐑞𐑺 𐑴𐑯 𐑡𐑷𐑟, 𐑞 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽𐑟 𐑗𐑵𐑛 𐑞𐑺 𐑓𐑵𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑮𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑖 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑹𐑑 𐑑 𐑦𐑑. 𐑞𐑱 𐑛𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑤𐑹𐑛𐑟; 𐑞𐑱 𐑓𐑦𐑤𐑛 𐑞𐑺 𐑚𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑲𐑒 ·𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑾𐑯 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑕 𐑷𐑤 𐑛𐑱 𐑤𐑴𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑕𐑐𐑲𐑕𐑩𐑟. 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑐𐑹𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑕 𐑨𐑐𐑩𐑑𐑲𐑑𐑕 𐑣𐑨𐑛 ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜 𐑯 ·𐑑𐑨𐑖𐑑𐑱𐑜𐑴, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑑 𐑓𐑦𐑤 𐑬𐑑 𐑞 𐑝𐑱𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑰𐑝𐑾𐑕 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑭𐑕𐑑, 𐑪𐑓𐑩𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑱𐑤 ·𐑛𐑴-·𐑚𐑶 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑓𐑱𐑯 𐑑 𐑚𐑮𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑯 𐑩 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑚𐑨𐑮𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑕𐑷𐑤𐑑-𐑡𐑳𐑙𐑒, 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑛 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑛 𐑪𐑒𐑕. 𐑯 𐑦𐑓 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑻 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑝𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑦𐑑, 𐑦𐑓 𐑣𐑰 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑜𐑴 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑯𐑦𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑣𐑪𐑐-𐑕𐑒𐑦𐑐-𐑯-𐑡𐑳𐑥𐑐, 𐑞𐑧𐑯 ·𐑑𐑨𐑖𐑑𐑱𐑜𐑴 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑩𐑯 𐑳𐑯𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑱 𐑝 𐑩𐑒𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑼𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑚𐑲 𐑛𐑸𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑓𐑹𐑒 𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑨𐑒, 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯-𐑢𐑲𐑟. 𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕 ·𐑛𐑨𐑜𐑵, 𐑕𐑰𐑟𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑕𐑳𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑿𐑥𐑼, 𐑩𐑕𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛 ·𐑛𐑴-·𐑚𐑶'𐑟 𐑥𐑧𐑥𐑼𐑦 𐑚𐑲 𐑕𐑯𐑨𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑳𐑐 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑦, 𐑯 𐑔𐑮𐑳𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑩 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑑𐑦 𐑢𐑫𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑯𐑗𐑼, 𐑢𐑲𐑤 ·𐑑𐑨𐑖𐑑𐑱𐑜𐑴, 𐑯𐑲𐑓 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛, 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑨𐑯 𐑤𐑱𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑼𐑦 𐑑 𐑕𐑒𐑨𐑤𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥. 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑨𐑗𐑼𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑩 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑯𐑻𐑝𐑩𐑕, 𐑖𐑳𐑛𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑓𐑧𐑤𐑴, 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑚𐑮𐑧𐑛-𐑓𐑱𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑿𐑼𐑛; 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑡𐑩𐑯𐑦 𐑝 𐑩 𐑚𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑮𐑳𐑐𐑑 𐑚𐑱𐑒𐑼 𐑯 𐑩 𐑣𐑪𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑯𐑻𐑕. 𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒 𐑑𐑼𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑽𐑦𐑪𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑑𐑿𐑥𐑳𐑤𐑗𐑵𐑩𐑕 𐑝𐑦𐑟𐑦𐑑𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑕𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑟, ·𐑛𐑴-·𐑚𐑶'𐑟 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑤𐑲𐑓 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑿𐑩𐑤 𐑤𐑦𐑐-𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑝𐑼. 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦, 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑕𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽𐑟 𐑓𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑖𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑷𐑤 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑞𐑱 𐑛𐑦𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛, 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑱𐑐 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞𐑺 𐑒𐑤𐑳𐑗𐑩𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑐𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑦 𐑩𐑡𐑶𐑯𐑦𐑙, 𐑯 𐑓𐑽𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑰𐑐 𐑬𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑞 𐑚𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑝 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑛𐑹, 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑷𐑤 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑴𐑝𐑼.</p>
    <p>𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑕𐑲𐑑 𐑑 𐑕𐑰 ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜 𐑕𐑰𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 ·𐑑𐑨𐑖𐑑𐑱𐑜𐑴, 𐑩𐑐𐑴𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑲𐑤𐑛 𐑑𐑰𐑔 𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑾𐑯'𐑟: 𐑒𐑮𐑪𐑕𐑢𐑲𐑟 𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑥, ·𐑛𐑨𐑜𐑵 𐑕𐑰𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑤𐑹, 𐑓 𐑩 𐑚𐑧𐑯𐑗 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑮𐑷𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑻𐑕-𐑐𐑤𐑵𐑥𐑛 𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑑 𐑞 𐑤𐑴 𐑒𐑸𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑟; 𐑨𐑑 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑥𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑕𐑩𐑤 𐑤𐑦𐑥𐑟, 𐑥𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑤𐑴 𐑒𐑨𐑚𐑦𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑱𐑥𐑢𐑻𐑒 𐑑 𐑖𐑱𐑒, 𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑩𐑯 ·𐑨𐑓𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑓𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑜𐑴𐑟 𐑐𐑨𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑡𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑖𐑦𐑐. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑓 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑦𐑕, 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑯𐑰𐑜𐑮𐑴 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑚𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑥𐑾𐑕, 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑑 𐑕𐑱 𐑛𐑱𐑯𐑑𐑦. 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑣𐑸𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑪𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑨𐑮𐑩𐑑𐑦𐑝𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤 𐑥𐑬𐑔𐑓𐑫𐑤𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑒𐑰𐑐 𐑳𐑐 𐑞 𐑝𐑲𐑑𐑨𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑿𐑟𐑛 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑕𐑴 𐑚𐑮𐑷𐑛, 𐑚𐑼𐑴𐑯𐑾𐑤, 𐑯 𐑕𐑵𐑐𐑻𐑚 𐑩 𐑐𐑻𐑕𐑩𐑯. 𐑚𐑳𐑑, 𐑛𐑬𐑑𐑤𐑩𐑕, 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑯𐑴𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑡 𐑓𐑧𐑛 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑪𐑙 𐑯 𐑛𐑮𐑨𐑙𐑒 𐑛𐑰𐑐 𐑝 𐑞 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑺; 𐑯 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑲𐑤𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑕𐑯𐑳𐑓𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑲𐑥 𐑤𐑲𐑓 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛𐑟. 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑚𐑰𐑓 𐑹 𐑚𐑲 𐑚𐑮𐑧𐑛, 𐑸 𐑡𐑲𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑹 𐑯𐑳𐑮𐑦𐑖𐑑. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜, 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑩 𐑥𐑹𐑑𐑩𐑤, 𐑚𐑸𐑚𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑒 𐑕𐑥𐑨𐑒 𐑝 𐑞 𐑤𐑦𐑐 𐑦𐑯 𐑰𐑑𐑦𐑙—𐑩𐑯 𐑳𐑜𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑳𐑓—𐑕𐑴 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑕𐑴, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 ·𐑛𐑴-·𐑚𐑶 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑑 𐑑 𐑕𐑰 𐑢𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑥𐑸𐑒𐑕 𐑝 𐑑𐑰𐑔 𐑤𐑻𐑒𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯 𐑤𐑰𐑯 𐑸𐑥𐑟. 𐑯 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑣𐑽 ·𐑑𐑨𐑖𐑑𐑱𐑜𐑴 𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑑 𐑓 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑛𐑿𐑕 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑴𐑯𐑟 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑑, 𐑞 𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑤-𐑢𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑕𐑑𐑿𐑼𐑛 𐑷𐑤 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑖𐑨𐑑𐑼𐑛 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑪𐑒𐑼𐑦 𐑣𐑨𐑙𐑦𐑙 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑦, 𐑚𐑲 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑓𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑐𐑷𐑤𐑟𐑦. 𐑯𐑹 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑞 𐑢𐑧𐑑𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑞 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽𐑟 𐑒𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑐𐑪𐑒𐑩𐑑𐑕, 𐑓 𐑞𐑺 𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑯 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑢𐑧𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑟; 𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑢𐑧𐑑𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑯𐑟, 𐑨𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑼, 𐑞𐑱 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑪𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑖𐑸𐑐𐑩𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑯𐑲𐑝𐑟; 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑤𐑲𐑟 𐑐𐑫𐑼 ·𐑛𐑴-·𐑚𐑶. 𐑣𐑬 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑣𐑰 𐑓𐑼𐑜𐑧𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 ·𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑛𐑱𐑟, ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜, 𐑓 𐑢𐑳𐑯, 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑜𐑦𐑤𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑥𐑻𐑛𐑼𐑩𐑕, 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑝𐑦𐑝𐑾𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟. 𐑩𐑤𐑨𐑕! 𐑛𐑴-·𐑚𐑶! 𐑣𐑸𐑛 𐑓𐑺𐑟 𐑞 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑑𐑼 𐑣𐑵 𐑢𐑱𐑑𐑕 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑟. 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑩 𐑯𐑨𐑐𐑒𐑦𐑯 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑨𐑮𐑦 𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑸𐑥, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 𐑚𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑼. 𐑦𐑯 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑑𐑲𐑥, 𐑞𐑴, 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑲𐑑, 𐑞 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑕𐑷𐑤𐑑-𐑕𐑰 𐑢𐑹𐑽𐑟 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑮𐑲𐑟 𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑐𐑸𐑑; 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑮𐑧𐑡𐑵𐑤𐑩𐑕, 𐑓𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤-𐑥𐑳𐑙𐑜𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑽𐑟, 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑺 𐑥𐑸𐑖𐑩𐑤 𐑚𐑴𐑯𐑟 𐑡𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑨𐑑 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑐, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 ·𐑥𐑫𐑼𐑦𐑖 ·𐑖𐑰𐑥𐑧𐑰𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑒𐑨𐑚𐑼𐑛𐑟.</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑳𐑑, 𐑞𐑴 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑚𐑸𐑚𐑼𐑾𐑯𐑟 𐑛𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑚𐑦𐑯, 𐑯 𐑯𐑪𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑛 𐑞𐑺; 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤, 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑧𐑯𐑦𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑧𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑣𐑨𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑕, 𐑞𐑱 𐑢𐑻 𐑕𐑒𐑺𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑧𐑐𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑰𐑤𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟, 𐑯 𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐𐑦𐑙-𐑑𐑲𐑥, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞𐑱 𐑐𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑦𐑑 𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑴𐑯 𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑽 𐑒𐑢𐑹𐑑𐑼𐑟.</p>
    <p>𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑼, ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑯𐑴 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑧𐑐𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑑 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 ·𐑩𐑥𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑟, 𐑣𐑵, 𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑕𐑧𐑑, 𐑮𐑭𐑞𐑼 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑲𐑯 𐑑 𐑞 𐑩𐑐𐑦𐑯𐑘𐑩𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑮𐑲𐑑𐑕 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐'𐑕 𐑒𐑨𐑚𐑦𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑪𐑙𐑟 𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑥; 𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑲 𐑒𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑕𐑦 𐑩𐑤𐑴𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑧𐑯𐑦𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦 𐑧𐑤𐑕 𐑦𐑟, 𐑨𐑑 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑑𐑲𐑥, 𐑐𐑼𐑥𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑞𐑺. 𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑, 𐑦𐑯 𐑮𐑾𐑤 𐑑𐑮𐑵𐑔, 𐑞 𐑥𐑱𐑑𐑕 𐑯 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑥𐑹 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑐𐑼𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑰 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑛 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑚𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑦𐑑. 𐑓 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞𐑱 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑼 𐑦𐑑, 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑰𐑑-𐑛𐑹 𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑩 𐑣𐑬𐑕; 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯𐑢𐑼𐑛𐑟 𐑓 𐑩 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑, 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑛 𐑬𐑑 𐑞 𐑯𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑; 𐑯, 𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑐𐑻𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑔𐑦𐑙, 𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑲𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑴𐑐𐑩𐑯 𐑺. 𐑯𐑹 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑞𐑱 𐑤𐑵𐑟 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑣𐑽𐑚𐑲; 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑚𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑴 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑨𐑯𐑘𐑩𐑯𐑖𐑦𐑐; 𐑕𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑤𐑦, ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑒𐑕𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤. 𐑞𐑴 𐑯𐑪𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑵𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑕 𐑝 ·𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑥, 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑩𐑯 𐑱𐑤𐑾𐑯 𐑑 𐑦𐑑. 𐑣𐑰 𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛, 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑜𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑤𐑦 ·𐑚𐑺𐑟 𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑛 ·𐑥𐑦𐑟𐑫𐑼𐑦. 𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑧𐑯 ·𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑙 𐑯 ·𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑼 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑛𐑦𐑐𐑸𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑲𐑤𐑛 ·𐑤𐑴𐑜𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑫𐑛𐑟, 𐑚𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑣𐑪𐑤𐑴 𐑝 𐑩 𐑑𐑮𐑰, 𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑛 𐑬𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼 𐑞𐑺, 𐑕𐑳𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯 𐑐𐑷𐑟; 𐑕𐑴, 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑧𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑, 𐑣𐑬𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑱𐑡, ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚'𐑟 𐑕𐑴𐑤, 𐑖𐑳𐑑 𐑳𐑐 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑱𐑝𐑛 𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑙𐑒 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦, 𐑞𐑺 𐑓𐑧𐑛 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑤𐑩𐑯 𐑐𐑷𐑟 𐑝 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑜𐑤𐑵𐑥!</p>
  </body>
</html>
