<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Chapter 27</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="chapter-27" xml:lang="en-US">
      <h2 id="chapterheader-27">·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 27. 𐑯𐑲𐑑𐑕 𐑯 ·𐑕𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑼𐑟.</h2>
    </div>
    <p>𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑕𐑧𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑥𐑱𐑑. 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑯𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑝 𐑝 ·𐑒𐑱𐑐 ·𐑒𐑪𐑛; 𐑯 𐑣𐑧𐑯𐑕, 𐑩𐑒𐑹𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑤𐑴𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑿𐑕𐑦𐑡, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛 𐑩 ·𐑒𐑱𐑐-·𐑒𐑪𐑛-𐑥𐑨𐑯. 𐑩 𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑦-𐑜𐑴-𐑤𐑳𐑒𐑦; 𐑯𐑲𐑞𐑼 𐑒𐑮𐑱𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑯𐑹 𐑝𐑨𐑤𐑾𐑯𐑑; 𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑐𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑟 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑱 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑺; 𐑯 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑜𐑱𐑡𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑕𐑦𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑗𐑱𐑕, 𐑑𐑶𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑢𐑱, 𐑒𐑭𐑥 𐑯 𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑡𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑡𐑶𐑯𐑼 𐑦𐑯𐑜𐑱𐑡𐑛 𐑓 𐑞 𐑘𐑽. 𐑜𐑫𐑛-𐑣𐑿𐑥𐑼𐑛, 𐑰𐑟𐑦, 𐑯 𐑒𐑺𐑤𐑩𐑕, 𐑣𐑰 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑲𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑓 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑛𐑧𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑼 𐑢𐑻 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑼, 𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑮𐑵 𐑷𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑜𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑕. 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑨𐑟 𐑐𐑼𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑼 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑞 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑓𐑼𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑼𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑, 𐑨𐑟 𐑩𐑯 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑡-𐑛𐑮𐑲𐑝𐑼 𐑦𐑟 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑯𐑳𐑜𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑪𐑒𐑕. 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑒𐑤𐑴𐑟 𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑛𐑧𐑔-𐑤𐑪𐑒 𐑝 𐑞 𐑓𐑲𐑑, 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑳𐑯𐑐𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕 𐑒𐑵𐑤𐑦 𐑯 𐑪𐑓-𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛𐑤𐑦, 𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑢𐑦𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑑𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑼 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑥𐑼. 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑣𐑳𐑥 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑮𐑰𐑜𐑩𐑛𐑦𐑜 𐑑𐑿𐑯𐑟 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑓𐑤𐑨𐑙𐑒 𐑯 𐑓𐑤𐑨𐑙𐑒 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑨𐑕𐑐𐑼𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑼. 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑿𐑕𐑦𐑡 𐑣𐑨𐑛, 𐑓 𐑞𐑦𐑕 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚, 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑝𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑞 𐑡𐑷𐑟 𐑝 𐑛𐑧𐑔 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑩𐑯 𐑰𐑟𐑦 𐑗𐑺. 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑔𐑷𐑑 𐑝 𐑛𐑧𐑔 𐑦𐑑𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓, 𐑞𐑺 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑴 𐑑𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑙. 𐑢𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑣𐑰 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑔𐑷𐑑 𐑝 𐑦𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤, 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑩 𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑕𐑗𐑩𐑯; 𐑚𐑳𐑑, 𐑦𐑓 𐑣𐑰 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑗𐑭𐑯𐑕 𐑑 𐑒𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑱 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑩 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑓𐑼𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑼, 𐑯𐑴 𐑛𐑬𐑑, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼, 𐑣𐑰 𐑑𐑫𐑒 𐑦𐑑 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑩 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑒𐑷𐑤 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑪𐑗 𐑑 𐑑𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑓𐑑, 𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑻 𐑞𐑧𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑝𐑟 𐑞𐑺, 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑬𐑑 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑴𐑚𐑱𐑛 𐑞 𐑹𐑛𐑼, 𐑯 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑵𐑯𐑼.</p>
    <p>𐑢𐑪𐑑, 𐑐𐑼𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑕, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑟, 𐑥𐑱𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩𐑯 𐑰𐑟𐑦-𐑜𐑴𐑦𐑙, 𐑳𐑯𐑓𐑽𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑨𐑯, 𐑕𐑴 𐑗𐑽𐑦𐑤𐑦 𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑡𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑓 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑚𐑻𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑤𐑲𐑓 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛 𐑓𐑫𐑤 𐑝 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑝 𐑐𐑧𐑛𐑤𐑼𐑟, 𐑷𐑤 𐑚𐑬𐑛 𐑑 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑺 𐑐𐑨𐑒𐑕; 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑐𐑑 𐑑 𐑚𐑮𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑲𐑩𐑕 𐑜𐑫𐑛-𐑣𐑿𐑥𐑼 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟; 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑲𐑐. 𐑓, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑴𐑟, 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑖𐑹𐑑, 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑐𐑲𐑐 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑮𐑧𐑜𐑿𐑤𐑼 𐑓𐑰𐑗𐑼𐑟 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑱𐑕. 𐑿 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑕𐑵𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑑 𐑑𐑻𐑯 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑳𐑙𐑒 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑴𐑟 𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑲𐑐. 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑧𐑐𐑑 𐑩 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑮𐑴 𐑝 𐑐𐑲𐑐𐑕 𐑞𐑺 𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑦 𐑤𐑴𐑛𐑩𐑛, 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑒 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑮𐑨𐑒, 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑦𐑯 𐑰𐑟𐑦 𐑮𐑰𐑗 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛; 𐑯, 𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑣𐑰 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯, 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑥𐑴𐑒𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑷𐑤 𐑬𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑩𐑒𐑕𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑑 𐑞 𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼; 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑤𐑴𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑦𐑯 𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑩𐑯𐑿. 𐑓, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚 𐑛𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑, 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑛 𐑝 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑐𐑫𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑧𐑜𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑮𐑴𐑟𐑼𐑟, 𐑣𐑰 𐑐𐑫𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑲𐑐 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑬𐑔.</p>
    <p>𐑲 𐑕𐑱 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑿𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑥𐑴𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑒𐑷𐑟, 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑰𐑕𐑑, 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑽 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑩𐑟𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯; 𐑓 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑯𐑴𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑻𐑔𐑤𐑦 𐑺, 𐑢𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑩𐑖𐑹 𐑹 𐑩𐑓𐑤𐑴𐑑, 𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑯𐑱𐑥𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑥𐑦𐑟𐑼𐑦𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑯𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑼𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑥𐑹𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑣𐑵 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑛𐑲𐑛 𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑣𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑑; 𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑝 𐑞 𐑒𐑪𐑤𐑼𐑩, 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑐𐑰𐑐𐑩𐑤 𐑜𐑴 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑒𐑨𐑥𐑓𐑼𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑼𐑗𐑦𐑓 𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑥𐑬𐑞𐑟; 𐑕𐑴, 𐑤𐑲𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑟, 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑥𐑹𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑚𐑿𐑤𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟, ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚'𐑟 𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑨𐑒𐑴 𐑕𐑥𐑴𐑒 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑪𐑐𐑼𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑱𐑡𐑩𐑯𐑑.</p>
    <p>𐑞 𐑔𐑻𐑛 𐑥𐑱𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 ·𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒, 𐑩 𐑯𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑝 𐑝 ·𐑑𐑦𐑟𐑚𐑼𐑦, 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑥𐑸𐑔𐑩'𐑟 ·𐑝𐑦𐑯𐑘𐑼𐑛. 𐑩 𐑖𐑹𐑑, 𐑕𐑑𐑬𐑑, 𐑮𐑳𐑛𐑦 𐑘𐑳𐑙 𐑓𐑧𐑤𐑴, 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑐𐑳𐑜𐑯𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑕 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟, 𐑣𐑵 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑣𐑬 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑑 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑐𐑻𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑯 𐑣𐑼𐑧𐑛𐑦𐑑𐑺𐑦𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑓𐑮𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥; 𐑯 𐑞𐑺𐑓𐑹 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑪𐑯𐑼 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑶 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑛. 𐑕𐑴 𐑳𐑑𐑼𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑪𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑕 𐑝 𐑮𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑓 𐑞 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑥𐑸𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑝 𐑞𐑺 𐑥𐑩𐑡𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑚𐑳𐑤𐑒 𐑯 𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑢𐑱𐑟; 𐑯 𐑕𐑴 𐑛𐑧𐑛 𐑑 𐑧𐑯𐑦𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩𐑯 𐑨𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑣𐑧𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑐𐑪𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑛𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑼 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑧𐑥; 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑫𐑼 𐑩𐑐𐑦𐑯𐑘𐑩𐑯, 𐑞 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑕 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑖𐑰𐑟 𐑝 𐑥𐑨𐑜𐑯𐑦𐑓𐑲𐑛 𐑥𐑬𐑕, 𐑹 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑰𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼-𐑮𐑨𐑑, 𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤 𐑨𐑐𐑤𐑦𐑒𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑯 𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑹𐑛𐑼 𐑑 𐑒𐑦𐑤 𐑯 𐑚𐑶𐑤. 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑑, 𐑳𐑯𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑕 𐑓𐑽𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑨𐑜𐑦𐑖 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑼 𐑝 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟; 𐑣𐑰 𐑓𐑪𐑤𐑴𐑛 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑓𐑦𐑖 𐑓 𐑞 𐑓𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑦𐑑; 𐑯 𐑩 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑘𐑽𐑟' 𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 ·𐑒𐑱𐑐 ·𐑣𐑹𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑩 𐑡𐑪𐑤𐑦 𐑡𐑴𐑒 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑧𐑙𐑔 𐑝 𐑑𐑲𐑥. 𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑒𐑸𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑼'𐑟 𐑯𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑸 𐑛𐑦𐑝𐑲𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑮𐑷𐑑 𐑯𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑯 𐑒𐑳𐑑 𐑯𐑱𐑤𐑟; 𐑕𐑴 𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑒𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑥𐑱 𐑚𐑰 𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑤𐑼𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑝𐑲𐑛𐑩𐑛. 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 ·𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑮𐑷𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑟; 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑑 𐑒𐑤𐑦𐑯𐑗 𐑑𐑲𐑑 𐑯 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑤𐑪𐑙. 𐑞𐑱 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥 ·𐑒𐑦𐑙-·𐑐𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑚𐑹𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛; 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑪𐑟, 𐑦𐑯 𐑓𐑹𐑥, 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑚𐑰 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑤𐑲𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑞 𐑖𐑹𐑑, 𐑕𐑒𐑢𐑺 𐑑𐑦𐑥𐑚𐑼 𐑯𐑴𐑯 𐑚𐑲 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑯𐑱𐑥 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑸𐑒𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑼𐑟; 𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑥𐑰𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑮𐑱𐑛𐑦𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑑𐑦𐑥𐑚𐑼𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑦𐑑, 𐑕𐑻𐑝𐑟 𐑑 𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑕 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑞 𐑲𐑕𐑦 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑒𐑳𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑚𐑨𐑑𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑰𐑟.</p>
    <p>𐑯𐑬 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑥𐑱𐑑𐑕—·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒, ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚, 𐑯 ·𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒, 𐑢𐑻 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑕 𐑥𐑧𐑯. 𐑞𐑱 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑣𐑵 𐑚𐑲 𐑿𐑯𐑦𐑝𐑻𐑕𐑩𐑤 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛'𐑟 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑟𐑥𐑧𐑯. 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑜𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑹𐑛𐑼 𐑝 𐑚𐑨𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑗 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑚𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑥𐑸𐑖𐑩𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑹𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟, 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑟𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑢𐑻 𐑨𐑟 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑟. 𐑹, 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑸𐑥𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑺 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑒𐑰𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑐𐑽𐑟, 𐑞𐑱 𐑢𐑻 𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑑 𐑑𐑮𐑰𐑴 𐑝 𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑼𐑟; 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑓𐑤𐑦𐑙𐑼𐑟 𐑝 𐑡𐑨𐑝𐑤𐑦𐑯𐑟.</p>
    <p>𐑯 𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑓𐑱𐑥𐑩𐑕 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑦, 𐑰𐑗 𐑥𐑱𐑑 𐑹 𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑟𐑥𐑩𐑯, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 ·𐑜𐑪𐑔𐑦𐑒 ·𐑯𐑲𐑑 𐑝 𐑴𐑤𐑛, 𐑦𐑟 𐑷𐑤𐑢𐑱𐑟 𐑩𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑴𐑑-𐑕𐑑𐑽𐑼 𐑹 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽, 𐑣𐑵 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑡𐑳𐑙𐑒𐑗𐑼𐑟 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑛𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑖 𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑼 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑚𐑨𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑑𐑢𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑹 𐑧𐑤𐑚𐑴𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑩𐑕𐑷𐑤𐑑; 𐑯 𐑥𐑹𐑴𐑝𐑼, 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑺 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑕𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑕 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑢𐑰𐑯 𐑞 𐑑𐑵, 𐑩 𐑒𐑤𐑴𐑕 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑕𐑦 𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑕; 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑞𐑺𐑓𐑹 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑥𐑰𐑑, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕 𐑢𐑰 𐑕𐑧𐑑 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑣𐑵 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛'𐑟 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽𐑟 𐑢𐑻, 𐑯 𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑟𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑰𐑗 𐑝 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑪𐑙𐑛.</p>
    <p>𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑢𐑪𐑟 ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜, 𐑣𐑵𐑥 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒, 𐑞 𐑗𐑰𐑓 𐑥𐑱𐑑, 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑕𐑦𐑤𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑓 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑼. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜 𐑦𐑟 𐑷𐑤𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑦 𐑯𐑴𐑯.</p>
    <p>𐑯𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 ·𐑑𐑨𐑖𐑑𐑱𐑜𐑴, 𐑩𐑯 𐑳𐑯𐑥𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑑 ·𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑾𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 ·𐑜𐑱 ·𐑣𐑧𐑛, 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑝 ·𐑥𐑸𐑔𐑩'𐑟 ·𐑝𐑦𐑯𐑘𐑼𐑛, 𐑢𐑺 𐑞𐑺 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑕 𐑞 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑮𐑧𐑥𐑯𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑩 𐑝𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑡 𐑝 𐑮𐑧𐑛 𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑤𐑲𐑛 𐑞 𐑯𐑱𐑚𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑝 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑝 𐑣𐑻 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑛𐑺𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽𐑟. 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑦, 𐑞𐑱 𐑿𐑠𐑵𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑜𐑴 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑡𐑦𐑯𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑒 𐑯𐑱𐑥 𐑝 ·𐑜𐑱-·𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑼𐑟. ·𐑑𐑨𐑖𐑑𐑱𐑜𐑴'𐑟 𐑤𐑪𐑙, 𐑤𐑰𐑯, 𐑕𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑣𐑺, 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑲 𐑗𐑰𐑒 𐑚𐑴𐑯𐑟, 𐑯 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑲𐑟—𐑓 𐑩𐑯 ·𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑾𐑯, ·𐑹𐑦𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑤𐑸𐑡𐑯𐑩𐑕, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 ·𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑸𐑒𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑜𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑯—𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑕𐑩𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑒𐑤𐑱𐑥𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑣𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑼 𐑝 𐑞 𐑳𐑯𐑝𐑦𐑖𐑦𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑛 𐑝 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑐𐑮𐑬𐑛 𐑢𐑹𐑽 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑟, 𐑣𐑵, 𐑦𐑯 𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 ·𐑯𐑿 ·𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑥𐑵𐑕, 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑕𐑒𐑬𐑼𐑛, 𐑚𐑴 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛, 𐑞 𐑨𐑚𐑼𐑦𐑡𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑓𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑥𐑱𐑯. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑯𐑴 𐑤𐑪𐑙𐑜𐑼 𐑕𐑯𐑳𐑓𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑤 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑲𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑰𐑕𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑫𐑛𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛, ·𐑑𐑨𐑖𐑑𐑱𐑜𐑴 𐑯𐑬 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑒 𐑝 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑰; 𐑞 𐑳𐑯𐑻𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑯 𐑓𐑦𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑨𐑤𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑨𐑮𐑴 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑲𐑼𐑟. 𐑑 𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑑𐑷𐑯𐑦 𐑚𐑮𐑷𐑯 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑲𐑞 𐑕𐑯𐑱𐑒𐑦 𐑤𐑦𐑥𐑟, 𐑿 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑒𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑞 𐑕𐑵𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑝 𐑞 𐑻𐑤𐑽 ·𐑐𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑟, 𐑯 𐑣𐑭𐑓-𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑰𐑝𐑛 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑲𐑤𐑛 ·𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑾𐑯 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑩 𐑕𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑯𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑬𐑼𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑺. ·𐑑𐑨𐑖𐑑𐑱𐑜𐑴 𐑢𐑪𐑟 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚 𐑞 𐑕𐑧𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑥𐑱𐑑'𐑕 𐑕𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑼.</p>
    <p>𐑔𐑻𐑛 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑞 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽𐑟 𐑢𐑪𐑟 ·𐑛𐑨𐑜𐑵, 𐑩 𐑡𐑲𐑜𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑒, 𐑒𐑴𐑤-𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒 𐑯𐑰𐑜𐑮𐑴-𐑕𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑡, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑤𐑲𐑩𐑯-𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑛—𐑩𐑯 ·𐑩𐑙𐑨𐑕𐑻𐑩𐑕 𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛. 𐑕𐑩𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑽𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑑𐑵 𐑜𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑵𐑐𐑕, 𐑕𐑴 𐑤𐑸𐑡 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼𐑟 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑮𐑦𐑙-𐑚𐑴𐑤𐑑𐑕, 𐑯 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑑𐑷𐑒 𐑝 𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑑𐑪𐑐-𐑕𐑱𐑤 𐑣𐑨𐑤𐑘𐑼𐑛𐑟 𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑥. 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑿𐑔 ·𐑛𐑨𐑜𐑵 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑝𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑺𐑦𐑤𐑦 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑚𐑹𐑛 𐑝 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑼, 𐑤𐑲𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑤𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑱 𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑝 𐑒𐑴𐑕𐑑. 𐑯 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑣𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑧𐑯𐑦𐑢𐑺 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑨𐑓𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩, ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑱𐑜𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑸𐑚𐑼𐑟 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯; 𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑯𐑬 𐑤𐑧𐑛 𐑓 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑘𐑽𐑟 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑤𐑲𐑓 𐑝 𐑞 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑦 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑕 𐑝 𐑴𐑯𐑼𐑟 𐑳𐑯𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑰𐑛𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑼 𐑝 𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑞𐑱 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑑; ·𐑛𐑨𐑜𐑵 𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑸𐑚𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑒 𐑝𐑻𐑗𐑵𐑟, 𐑯 𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑡𐑦𐑮𐑭𐑓, 𐑥𐑵𐑝𐑛 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑒𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑐𐑪𐑥𐑐 𐑝 𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑕 𐑓𐑰𐑑 𐑓𐑲𐑝 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑪𐑒𐑕. 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑒𐑹𐑐𐑹𐑾𐑤 𐑣𐑿𐑥𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑦𐑯 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑐 𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥; 𐑯 𐑩 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑩 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑓𐑤𐑨𐑜 𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑑 𐑚𐑧𐑜 𐑑𐑮𐑵𐑕 𐑝 𐑩 𐑓𐑹𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑕. 𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑾𐑕 𐑑 𐑑𐑧𐑤, 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑽𐑾𐑤 𐑯𐑰𐑜𐑮𐑴, ·𐑩𐑙𐑨𐑕𐑻𐑩𐑕 ·𐑛𐑨𐑜𐑵, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑼 𐑝 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 ·𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒, 𐑣𐑵 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑗𐑧𐑕-𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥. 𐑨𐑟 𐑓 𐑞 𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑦𐑛𐑿 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛'𐑟 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑦, 𐑚𐑰 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑧𐑛, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑛𐑱 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑑𐑵 𐑝 𐑞 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑔𐑬𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑞 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑶𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑩𐑥𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑦, 𐑸 ·𐑩𐑥𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑚𐑹𐑯, 𐑞𐑴 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑯𐑽𐑤𐑦 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑪𐑓𐑦𐑕𐑼𐑟 𐑸. 𐑣𐑽𐑦𐑯 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 ·𐑩𐑥𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑦 𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 ·𐑩𐑥𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑸𐑥𐑦 𐑯 𐑥𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑺𐑦 𐑯 𐑥𐑻𐑗𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑯𐑱𐑝𐑦𐑟, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑧𐑯𐑡𐑦𐑯𐑽𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑹𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑶𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑩𐑥𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑯 ·𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑨𐑤𐑟 𐑯 ·𐑮𐑱𐑤𐑮𐑴𐑛𐑟. 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑥, 𐑲 𐑕𐑱, 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑪𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑒𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑞 𐑯𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑝 ·𐑩𐑥𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑤𐑦𐑚𐑼𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑛𐑟 𐑞 𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑟, 𐑞 𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛 𐑨𐑟 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑤𐑲𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑟. 𐑯𐑴 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤 𐑯𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑼 𐑝 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑩𐑟𐑹𐑟, 𐑢𐑺 𐑞 𐑬𐑑𐑢𐑼𐑛 𐑚𐑬𐑯𐑛 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑼𐑟 𐑓𐑮𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑑𐑳𐑗 𐑑 𐑷𐑜𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑟 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑣𐑸𐑛𐑦 𐑐𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑮𐑪𐑒𐑦 𐑖𐑹𐑟. 𐑦𐑯 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑼, 𐑞 ·𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑯𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑼𐑟 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 ·𐑣𐑳𐑤 𐑹 ·𐑤𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑯, 𐑐𐑫𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑖𐑧𐑑𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛 ·𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑟, 𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑰𐑝 𐑞 𐑓𐑫𐑤 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑞𐑺 𐑒𐑮𐑵. 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑨𐑕𐑦𐑡 𐑣𐑴𐑥𐑢𐑼𐑛𐑟, 𐑞𐑱 𐑛𐑮𐑪𐑐 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑞𐑺 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯. 𐑣𐑬 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟, 𐑞𐑺 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑴 𐑑𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑙, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 ·𐑲𐑕𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑟 𐑕𐑰𐑥 𐑑 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑞 𐑚𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯. 𐑞𐑱 𐑢𐑻 𐑯𐑽𐑤𐑦 𐑷𐑤 ·𐑲𐑕𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛, <i>·𐑲𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑱𐑑𐑴𐑟</i> 𐑑𐑵, 𐑲 𐑒𐑷𐑤 𐑕𐑳𐑗, 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑩𐑒𐑯𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑡𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑰𐑗 <i>·𐑲𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑱𐑑𐑴</i> 𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑯 𐑩 𐑕𐑧𐑐𐑼𐑩𐑑 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯. 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑯𐑬, 𐑓𐑧𐑛𐑼𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑒𐑰𐑤, 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑩 𐑕𐑧𐑑 𐑞𐑰𐑟 ·𐑲𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑱𐑑𐑴𐑟 𐑢𐑻! 𐑩𐑯 ·𐑨𐑯𐑩𐑗𐑸𐑟𐑦𐑕 ·𐑒𐑤𐑴𐑪𐑑𐑕 𐑛𐑧𐑐𐑿𐑑𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑲𐑤𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑰, 𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑻𐑔, 𐑩𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑦𐑙 ·𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛 𐑑 𐑤𐑱 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛'𐑟 𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑚𐑸 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑝 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑚𐑨𐑒. 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒 ·𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 ·𐑐𐑦𐑐—𐑣𐑰 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑛𐑦𐑛—𐑴, 𐑯𐑴! 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹. 𐑐𐑫𐑼 ·𐑨𐑤𐑩𐑚𐑨𐑥𐑩 𐑚𐑶! 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑦𐑥 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛'𐑟 𐑓𐑴𐑒𐑕𐑩𐑤, 𐑘𐑰 𐑖𐑨𐑤 𐑺 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑕𐑰 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑚𐑰𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑨𐑥𐑚𐑼𐑰𐑯; 𐑐𐑮𐑰𐑤𐑿𐑟𐑦𐑝 𐑝 𐑞 𐑦𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑑𐑲𐑥, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑓, 𐑑 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑒𐑢𐑹𐑑𐑼-𐑛𐑧𐑒 𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑲, 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑚𐑦𐑛 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑒 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑩𐑤𐑟, 𐑯 𐑚𐑰𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑨𐑥𐑚𐑼𐑰𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑜𐑤𐑹𐑦; 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛 𐑩 𐑒𐑬𐑼𐑛 𐑣𐑽, 𐑣𐑱𐑤𐑛 𐑩 𐑣𐑽𐑴 𐑞𐑺!</p>
  </body>
</html>
