<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Chapter 16</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="chapter-16" xml:lang="en-US">
      <h2 id="chapterheader-16">·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 16. 𐑞 ·𐑖𐑦𐑐.</h2>
    </div>
    <p>𐑦𐑯 𐑚𐑧𐑛 𐑢𐑰 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑒𐑪𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑬𐑼 𐑐𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑟 𐑓 𐑞 𐑥𐑪𐑮𐑴. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑑 𐑥𐑲 𐑕𐑼𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑟 𐑯 𐑯𐑴 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑻𐑯, ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜 𐑯𐑬 𐑜𐑱𐑝 𐑥𐑰 𐑑 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑳𐑤𐑑𐑦𐑙 ·𐑘𐑴𐑡𐑴—𐑞 𐑯𐑱𐑥 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑜𐑪𐑛—𐑯 ·𐑘𐑴𐑡𐑴 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑑𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑑𐑵 𐑹 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑴𐑝𐑼, 𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑪𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑦𐑑 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦𐑢𐑱, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑛 𐑝 𐑬𐑼 𐑜𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑑𐑩𐑜𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙-𐑓𐑤𐑰𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑸𐑚𐑼, 𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑼𐑑 𐑕𐑦𐑤𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑼 𐑒𐑮𐑭𐑓𐑑; 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑛 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕, 𐑲 𐑕𐑱, ·𐑘𐑴𐑡𐑴 𐑻𐑯𐑩𐑕𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑡𐑶𐑯𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑦𐑤𐑧𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑥𐑰, 𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑟𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑨𐑟 ·𐑘𐑴𐑡𐑴 𐑐𐑻𐑐𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑕; 𐑯, 𐑦𐑯 𐑹𐑛𐑼 𐑑 𐑛𐑵 𐑕𐑴, 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑷𐑤𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑦 𐑐𐑦𐑗𐑑 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑩 𐑝𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑤, 𐑢𐑦𐑗, 𐑦𐑓 𐑤𐑧𐑓𐑑 𐑑 𐑥𐑲𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓, 𐑲, ·𐑦𐑖𐑥𐑱𐑩𐑤, 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑨𐑤𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑲𐑑 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯, 𐑓 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑴 𐑦𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑛 𐑬𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑗𐑭𐑯𐑕; 𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑝𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑤 𐑲 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑥𐑰𐑛𐑾𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑥𐑲𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓, 𐑓 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑦𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑦𐑝 𐑝 ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜.</p>
    <p>𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑓𐑼𐑜𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑑 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑, 𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑟, ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕𐑑 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑓𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑝 ·𐑘𐑴𐑡𐑴'𐑟 𐑡𐑳𐑡𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑯 𐑕𐑼𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑹𐑒𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑟; 𐑯 𐑗𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑖𐑑 ·𐑘𐑴𐑡𐑴 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑥, 𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑮𐑭𐑞𐑼 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑜𐑪𐑛, 𐑣𐑵 𐑐𐑼𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑕 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑳𐑓 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑤, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑒𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑩𐑒𐑕𐑰𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑦𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑟𐑲𐑯𐑟.</p>
    <p>𐑯𐑬, 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑐𐑤𐑨𐑯 𐑝 ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜'𐑟, 𐑹 𐑮𐑭𐑞𐑼 ·𐑘𐑴𐑡𐑴'𐑟, 𐑑𐑳𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑕𐑦𐑤𐑧𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑬𐑼 𐑒𐑮𐑭𐑓𐑑; 𐑲 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑐𐑤𐑨𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤. 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑲𐑛 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜'𐑟 𐑕𐑩𐑜𐑨𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑑 𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑 𐑬𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑼 𐑚𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑓𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑑 𐑒𐑨𐑮𐑦 𐑳𐑕 𐑯 𐑬𐑼 𐑓𐑹𐑗𐑵𐑯𐑟 𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑤𐑦. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑷𐑤 𐑥𐑲 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑛𐑿𐑕𐑑 𐑯𐑴 𐑦𐑓𐑧𐑒𐑑 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜, 𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑲𐑡𐑛 𐑑 𐑨𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑧𐑕; 𐑯 𐑩𐑒𐑹𐑛𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑺𐑛 𐑑 𐑕𐑧𐑑 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑚𐑦𐑟𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑛𐑦𐑑𐑻𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑛 𐑮𐑳𐑖𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑡𐑦 𐑯 𐑝𐑦𐑜𐑼, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑩𐑓𐑺. 𐑯𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑹𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑻𐑤𐑦, 𐑤𐑰𐑝𐑦𐑙 ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜 𐑖𐑳𐑑 𐑳𐑐 𐑢𐑦𐑞 ·𐑘𐑴𐑡𐑴 𐑦𐑯 𐑬𐑼 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑚𐑧𐑛𐑮𐑵𐑥—𐑓 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 ·𐑤𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑹 ·𐑮𐑭𐑥𐑩𐑛𐑭𐑯, 𐑹 𐑛𐑱 𐑝 𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙, 𐑣𐑿𐑥𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑱𐑼 𐑢𐑦𐑞 ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜 𐑯 ·𐑘𐑴𐑡𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑛𐑱; <i>𐑣𐑬</i> 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑲 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑬𐑑, 𐑓, 𐑞𐑴 𐑲 𐑩𐑐𐑤𐑲𐑛 𐑥𐑲𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟, 𐑲 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑼 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑼𐑡𐑦𐑟 𐑯 XXXIX ·𐑸𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑟—𐑤𐑰𐑝𐑦𐑙 ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜, 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑣𐑷𐑒 𐑐𐑲𐑐, 𐑯 ·𐑘𐑴𐑡𐑴 𐑢𐑹𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑨𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑤 𐑓𐑲𐑼 𐑝 𐑖𐑱𐑝𐑦𐑙𐑟, 𐑲 𐑕𐑨𐑤𐑦𐑛 𐑬𐑑 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑦𐑙. 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑤𐑪𐑙𐑛 𐑕𐑷𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑯 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑥 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑼𐑦𐑟, 𐑲 𐑤𐑻𐑯𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑻 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑕 𐑳𐑐 𐑓 𐑔𐑮𐑰-𐑘𐑽𐑟' 𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑟—𐑞 ·𐑛𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤-𐑛𐑨𐑥, 𐑞 ·𐑑𐑦𐑑-𐑚𐑦𐑑, 𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛. <i>𐑛𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤-·𐑛𐑨𐑥</i>, 𐑲 𐑛𐑵 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑯𐑴 𐑞 𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑡𐑦𐑯 𐑝; <i>·𐑑𐑦𐑑-𐑚𐑦𐑑</i> 𐑦𐑟 𐑪𐑚𐑝𐑾𐑕; <i>·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛</i>, 𐑿 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑯𐑴 𐑛𐑬𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑧𐑥𐑚𐑼, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑯𐑱𐑥 𐑝 𐑩 𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑩𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑚 𐑝 ·𐑥𐑨𐑕𐑩𐑗𐑵𐑕𐑩𐑑𐑕 ·𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑾𐑯𐑟; 𐑯𐑬 𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑱𐑯𐑗𐑩𐑯𐑑 ·𐑥𐑰𐑛𐑟. 𐑲 𐑐𐑽𐑛 𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑛 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑛𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤-𐑛𐑨𐑥; 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑻, 𐑣𐑪𐑐𐑑 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑑𐑦𐑑-𐑚𐑦𐑑; 𐑯 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑩𐑤𐑦, 𐑜𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑯 𐑚𐑹𐑛 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛, 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑑 𐑼𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑻 𐑓 𐑩 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑, 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑲𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑓 𐑳𐑕.</p>
    <p>𐑿 𐑥𐑱 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑕𐑰𐑯 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑩 𐑒𐑢𐑱𐑯𐑑 𐑒𐑮𐑭𐑓𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑘𐑹 𐑛𐑱, 𐑓 𐑷𐑑 𐑲 𐑯𐑴;—𐑕𐑒𐑢𐑺-𐑑𐑴𐑛 𐑤𐑳𐑜𐑼𐑟; 𐑥𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑕 ·𐑡𐑨𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑰𐑟 𐑡𐑳𐑙𐑒𐑕; 𐑚𐑳𐑑𐑼-𐑚𐑪𐑒𐑕 𐑜𐑨𐑤𐑦𐑪𐑑𐑕, 𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑑; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑥𐑲 𐑢𐑻𐑛 𐑓 𐑦𐑑, 𐑿 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑕𐑷 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑮𐑺 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑒𐑮𐑭𐑓𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑮𐑺 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛. 𐑖𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑝 𐑞 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑕𐑒𐑵𐑤, 𐑮𐑭𐑞𐑼 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤 𐑦𐑓 𐑧𐑯𐑦𐑔𐑦𐑙; 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩𐑯 𐑴𐑤𐑛-𐑓𐑨𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑒𐑤𐑷-𐑓𐑫𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑣𐑻. 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑕𐑰𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑯 𐑢𐑧𐑞𐑼-𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑑𐑲𐑓𐑵𐑯𐑟 𐑯 𐑒𐑭𐑥𐑟 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑓𐑹 𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟, 𐑣𐑻 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑣𐑳𐑤'𐑟 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑧𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑛𐑸𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 ·𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑯𐑗 𐑜𐑮𐑧𐑯𐑩𐑛𐑽'𐑟, 𐑣𐑵 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑩𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑓𐑷𐑑 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑰𐑡𐑦𐑐𐑑 𐑯 ·𐑕𐑲𐑚𐑽𐑾. 𐑣𐑻 𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑚𐑬𐑟 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑑 𐑚𐑽𐑛𐑩𐑛. 𐑣𐑻 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑕—𐑒𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑢𐑺 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑝 ·𐑡𐑩𐑐𐑨𐑯, 𐑢𐑺 𐑣𐑻 𐑼𐑦𐑡𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑤𐑪𐑕𐑑 𐑴𐑝𐑼𐑚𐑹𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑜𐑱𐑤—𐑣𐑻 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑕 𐑕𐑑𐑫𐑛 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑓𐑤𐑦 𐑳𐑐 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞 𐑕𐑐𐑲𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑒𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑝 ·𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑴𐑯. 𐑣𐑻 𐑱𐑯𐑗𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑛𐑧𐑒𐑕 𐑢𐑻 𐑢𐑹𐑯 𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑛, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞 𐑐𐑦𐑤𐑜𐑮𐑦𐑥-𐑢𐑻𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑑 𐑓𐑤𐑨𐑜-𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑯 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑚𐑼𐑦 ·𐑒𐑩𐑔𐑰𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑺 ·𐑚𐑧𐑒𐑩𐑑 𐑚𐑤𐑧𐑛. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑣𐑻 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑟, 𐑢𐑻 𐑨𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑯𐑿 𐑯 𐑥𐑸𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑓𐑰𐑗𐑼𐑟, 𐑐𐑼𐑑𐑱𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑲𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑦𐑟𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑓 𐑥𐑹 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑣𐑭𐑓 𐑩 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑗𐑼𐑦 𐑖𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑓𐑪𐑤𐑴𐑛. 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑐𐑰𐑤𐑧𐑜, 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑘𐑽𐑟 𐑣𐑻 𐑗𐑰𐑓-𐑥𐑱𐑑, 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑩𐑯𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑝𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯, 𐑯 𐑯𐑬 𐑩 𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑲𐑼𐑛 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑩𐑯, 𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑐𐑩𐑤 𐑴𐑯𐑼𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛,—𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑐𐑰𐑤𐑧𐑜, 𐑛𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑑𐑻𐑥 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑗𐑰𐑓-𐑥𐑱𐑑𐑖𐑦𐑐, 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑑 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑻 𐑼𐑦𐑡𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑜𐑮𐑴𐑑𐑧𐑕𐑒𐑯𐑩𐑕, 𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑤𐑱𐑛 𐑦𐑑, 𐑷𐑤 𐑴𐑝𐑼, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑒𐑢𐑱𐑯𐑑𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑚𐑴𐑔 𐑝 𐑥𐑩𐑑𐑽𐑾𐑤 𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑝𐑲𐑕, 𐑳𐑯𐑥𐑨𐑗𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑧𐑯𐑦𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑧𐑐𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑚𐑰 ·𐑔𐑹𐑒𐑦𐑤-·𐑣𐑱𐑒'𐑕 𐑒𐑸𐑝𐑛 𐑚𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑼 𐑹 𐑚𐑧𐑛𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑛. 𐑖𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩𐑐𐑨𐑮𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑚𐑸𐑚𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑒 ·𐑰𐑔𐑦𐑴𐑐𐑾𐑯 𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑼𐑼, 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑧𐑒 𐑣𐑧𐑝𐑦 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑐𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑖𐑑 𐑲𐑝𐑼𐑦. 𐑖𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑑𐑮𐑴𐑓𐑦𐑟. 𐑩 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑩 𐑒𐑮𐑭𐑓𐑑, 𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑻𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑓𐑹𐑔 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑗𐑱𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑴𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑣𐑻 𐑧𐑯𐑩𐑥𐑦𐑟. 𐑷𐑤 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛, 𐑣𐑻 𐑳𐑯𐑐𐑨𐑯𐑩𐑤𐑛, 𐑴𐑐𐑩𐑯 𐑚𐑫𐑤𐑢𐑼𐑒𐑕 𐑢𐑻 𐑜𐑸𐑯𐑦𐑖𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑿𐑩𐑕 𐑡𐑷, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑖𐑸𐑐 𐑑𐑰𐑔 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑞𐑺 𐑓 𐑐𐑦𐑯𐑟, 𐑑 𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑻 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑣𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑯 𐑔𐑿𐑟 𐑯 𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑑. 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑔𐑿𐑟 𐑮𐑨𐑯 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑚𐑱𐑕 𐑚𐑤𐑪𐑒𐑕 𐑝 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑢𐑫𐑛, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑛𐑧𐑓𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑖𐑰𐑝𐑟 𐑝 𐑕𐑰-𐑲𐑝𐑼𐑦. 𐑕𐑒𐑹𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑲𐑤 𐑢𐑰𐑤 𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑻 𐑮𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑥, 𐑖𐑰 𐑕𐑐𐑹𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑞𐑺 𐑩 𐑑𐑦𐑤𐑼; 𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑑𐑦𐑤𐑼 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑥𐑨𐑕, 𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑾𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑸𐑝𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑯𐑼𐑴 𐑤𐑴𐑼 𐑡𐑷 𐑝 𐑣𐑻 𐑣𐑼𐑧𐑛𐑦𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑓𐑴. 𐑞 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑥𐑟𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑵 𐑕𐑑𐑽𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑑𐑦𐑤𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑑𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑦𐑕𐑑, 𐑓𐑧𐑤𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞 ·𐑑𐑸𐑑𐑼, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑟 𐑚𐑨𐑒 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑲𐑼𐑦 𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑒𐑤𐑳𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑡𐑷. 𐑩 𐑯𐑴𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑮𐑭𐑓𐑑, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑣𐑬 𐑩 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑧𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑒𐑪𐑤𐑦! 𐑷𐑤 𐑯𐑴𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑸 𐑑𐑳𐑗𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑨𐑑.</p>
    <p>𐑯𐑬 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑲 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑑 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑞 𐑒𐑢𐑹𐑑𐑼-𐑛𐑧𐑒, 𐑓 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑷𐑔𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑦, 𐑦𐑯 𐑹𐑛𐑼 𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑐𐑴𐑟 𐑥𐑲𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑑 𐑓 𐑞 𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡, 𐑨𐑑 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑲 𐑕𐑷 𐑯𐑴𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑲 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑴𐑝𐑼𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑑, 𐑹 𐑮𐑭𐑞𐑼 𐑢𐑦𐑜𐑢𐑭𐑥, 𐑐𐑦𐑗𐑑 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑚𐑦𐑣𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑥𐑱𐑯-𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑. 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑩 𐑑𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑼𐑼𐑦 𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑿𐑟𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑐𐑹𐑑. 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑝 𐑩 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑖𐑱𐑐, 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑑𐑧𐑯 𐑓𐑰𐑑 𐑣𐑲; 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑞 𐑤𐑪𐑙, 𐑣𐑿𐑡 𐑕𐑤𐑨𐑚𐑟 𐑝 𐑤𐑦𐑥𐑚𐑼 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒 𐑚𐑴𐑯 𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑤 𐑯 𐑣𐑲𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑡𐑷𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑮𐑲𐑑-𐑢𐑱𐑤. 𐑐𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑺 𐑚𐑮𐑷𐑛 𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑒, 𐑩 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑕𐑤𐑨𐑚𐑟 𐑤𐑱𐑕𐑑 𐑑𐑩𐑜𐑧𐑞𐑼, 𐑥𐑿𐑗𐑵𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑤𐑴𐑐𐑑 𐑑𐑩𐑢𐑹𐑛𐑟 𐑰𐑗 𐑳𐑞𐑼, 𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑱𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑕 𐑿𐑯𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑑𐑳𐑓𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑, 𐑢𐑺 𐑞 𐑤𐑵𐑕 𐑣𐑺𐑦 𐑓𐑲𐑚𐑼𐑟 𐑢𐑱𐑝𐑛 𐑑 𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑴 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞 𐑑𐑪𐑐-𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑐𐑪𐑑𐑴𐑪𐑑𐑱𐑥𐑦 ·𐑕𐑱𐑗𐑩𐑥'𐑟 𐑣𐑧𐑛. 𐑩 𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑨𐑙𐑜𐑿𐑤𐑼 𐑴𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑱𐑕𐑑 𐑑𐑩𐑢𐑹𐑛𐑟 𐑞 𐑚𐑬𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐, 𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑲𐑛𐑼 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑩 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑰𐑑 𐑝𐑿 𐑓𐑹𐑢𐑼𐑛.</p>
    <p>𐑯 𐑣𐑭𐑓 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑰𐑤𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑒𐑢𐑽 𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑩𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑, 𐑲 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑧𐑙𐑔 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑣𐑵 𐑚𐑲 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑨𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑷𐑔𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑦; 𐑯 𐑣𐑵, 𐑦𐑑 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑯𐑵𐑯, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐'𐑕 𐑢𐑻𐑒 𐑕𐑩𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑬 𐑦𐑯𐑡𐑶𐑦𐑙 𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑐𐑲𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑚𐑻𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑛. 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑰𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑪𐑯 𐑩𐑯 𐑴𐑤𐑛-𐑓𐑨𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑴𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑗𐑺, 𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑷𐑤 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑾𐑕 𐑒𐑸𐑝𐑦𐑙; 𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑥 𐑝 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑛 𐑝 𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑬𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑤𐑱𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑦𐑤𐑨𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑓 𐑝 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑜𐑢𐑭𐑥 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛.</p>
    <p>𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑳𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑴 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑐𐑼𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑼, 𐑐𐑼𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑕, 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑞 𐑩𐑐𐑽𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑧𐑤𐑛𐑼𐑤𐑦 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑲 𐑕𐑷; 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑚𐑮𐑬𐑯 𐑯 𐑚𐑮𐑷𐑯𐑦, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑯 𐑣𐑧𐑝𐑦𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑳𐑐 𐑦𐑯 𐑚𐑤𐑵 𐑐𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑑-𐑒𐑤𐑪𐑔, 𐑒𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑢𐑱𐑒𐑼 𐑕𐑑𐑲𐑤; 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑓𐑲𐑯 𐑯 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑲𐑒𐑮𐑩𐑕𐑒𐑪𐑐𐑦𐑒 𐑯𐑧𐑑-𐑢𐑻𐑒 𐑝 𐑞 𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑿𐑑𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑤𐑱𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑲𐑟, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑼𐑦𐑟𐑩𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑿𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑣𐑸𐑛 𐑜𐑱𐑤𐑟, 𐑯 𐑷𐑤𐑢𐑱𐑟 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑢𐑼𐑛;—𐑓 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑒𐑷𐑟𐑩𐑟 𐑞 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑞 𐑲𐑟 𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑐𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑑𐑩𐑜𐑧𐑞𐑼. 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑲-𐑮𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑸 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑦𐑓𐑧𐑒𐑗𐑵𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑕𐑒𐑬𐑤.</p>
    <p>“𐑦𐑟 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛?” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑲, 𐑩𐑛𐑝𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑞 𐑛𐑹 𐑝 𐑞 𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑑.</p>
    <p>“𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑴𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛, 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑛𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑬 𐑢𐑪𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑥?” 𐑣𐑰 𐑛𐑦𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛.</p>
    <p>“𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑦𐑙.”</p>
    <p>“𐑞𐑬 𐑢𐑪𐑕𐑑, 𐑢𐑪𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑬? 𐑲 𐑕𐑰 𐑞𐑬 𐑸𐑑 𐑯𐑴 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑𐑼—𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑝 𐑚𐑴𐑑?”</p>
    <p>“𐑯𐑴, ·𐑕𐑻, 𐑲 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑣𐑨𐑝.”</p>
    <p>“𐑛𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑯𐑴 𐑯𐑳𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙, 𐑲 𐑛𐑺 𐑕𐑱—𐑱?</p>
    <p>“𐑯𐑳𐑔𐑦𐑙, ·𐑕𐑻; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑯𐑴 𐑛𐑬𐑑 𐑲 𐑖𐑨𐑤 𐑕𐑵𐑯 𐑤𐑻𐑯. 𐑲'𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑕𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑻𐑗𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑕𐑻𐑝𐑦𐑕, 𐑯 𐑲 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑞𐑨𐑑—”</p>
    <p>“𐑥𐑻𐑗𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑕𐑻𐑝𐑦𐑕 𐑚𐑰 𐑛𐑨𐑥𐑛. 𐑑𐑷𐑒 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑴 𐑑 𐑥𐑰. 𐑛𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑰 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑧𐑜?—𐑲'𐑤 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑧𐑜 𐑩𐑢𐑱 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞𐑲 𐑕𐑑𐑻𐑯, 𐑦𐑓 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑞𐑬 𐑑𐑷𐑒𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑥𐑸𐑗𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑕𐑻𐑝𐑦𐑕 𐑑 𐑥𐑰 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯. 𐑥𐑸𐑗𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑕𐑻𐑝𐑦𐑕 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑰𐑛! 𐑲 𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑴𐑟 𐑯𐑬 𐑘𐑰 𐑓𐑰𐑤 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑐𐑮𐑬𐑛 𐑝 𐑣𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑻𐑝𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑥𐑸𐑗𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑕. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑓𐑤𐑵𐑒𐑕! 𐑥𐑨𐑯, 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑥𐑱𐑒𐑕 𐑞𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑯𐑑 𐑑 𐑜𐑴 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙, 𐑱?—𐑦𐑑 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑕 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑩𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑕, 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑦𐑑, 𐑱?—𐑣𐑨𐑕𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑩 𐑐𐑲𐑮𐑩𐑑, 𐑣𐑨𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑬?—𐑛𐑦𐑛𐑕𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑮𐑪𐑚 𐑞𐑲 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯, 𐑛𐑦𐑛𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑬?—𐑛𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑝 𐑥𐑻𐑛𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑪𐑓𐑦𐑕𐑼𐑟 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞𐑬 𐑜𐑧𐑑𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑑 𐑕𐑰?”</p>
    <p>𐑲 𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑑𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑥𐑲 𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑝 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑟. 𐑲 𐑕𐑷 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑞 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑒 𐑝 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑣𐑭𐑓 𐑣𐑿𐑥𐑼𐑩𐑕 𐑦𐑯𐑿𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑴𐑟, 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑩𐑯, 𐑨𐑟 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑿𐑤𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 ·𐑒𐑢𐑱𐑒𐑼𐑦𐑖 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑𐑼, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑓𐑫𐑤 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑤𐑼 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑡𐑩𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑩𐑟, 𐑯 𐑮𐑭𐑞𐑼 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑕𐑑𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑱𐑤𐑾𐑯𐑟, 𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑧𐑕 𐑞𐑱 𐑣𐑱𐑤𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 ·𐑒𐑱𐑐 ·𐑒𐑪𐑛 𐑹 𐑞 ·𐑝𐑦𐑯𐑘𐑼𐑛.</p>
    <p>“𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑕 𐑞𐑰 𐑩-𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙? 𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑯𐑑 𐑑 𐑯𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑲 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑝 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑘𐑰.”</p>
    <p>“𐑢𐑧𐑤, 𐑕𐑻, 𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑯𐑑 𐑑 𐑕𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑟. 𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑯𐑑 𐑑 𐑕𐑰 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛.”</p>
    <p>“𐑢𐑪𐑯𐑑 𐑑 𐑕𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑟, 𐑱? 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑘𐑰 𐑒𐑤𐑨𐑐𐑑 𐑲 𐑪𐑯 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚?”</p>
    <p>“𐑣𐑵 𐑦𐑟 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚, 𐑕𐑻?”</p>
    <p>“𐑲, 𐑲, 𐑲 𐑔𐑷𐑑 𐑕𐑴. 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑖𐑦𐑐.”</p>
    <p>“𐑲 𐑨𐑥 𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯. 𐑲 𐑔𐑷𐑑 𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓.”</p>
    <p>“𐑞𐑬 𐑸𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑑 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑐𐑰𐑤𐑧𐑜—𐑞𐑨𐑑'𐑕 𐑣𐑵 𐑘𐑰 𐑸 𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑑, 𐑘𐑳𐑙 𐑥𐑨𐑯. 𐑦𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑪𐑙𐑟 𐑑 𐑥𐑰 𐑯 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑨𐑛 𐑑 𐑕𐑰 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛 𐑓𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑬𐑑 𐑓 𐑞 𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡, 𐑯 𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑤𐑲𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑻 𐑯𐑰𐑛𐑟, 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑵𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑮𐑵. 𐑢𐑰 𐑸 𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑴𐑯𐑼𐑟 𐑯 𐑱𐑡𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑜𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑕𐑱, 𐑦𐑓 𐑞𐑬 𐑢𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑑 𐑯𐑴 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑟, 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑬 𐑑𐑧𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑘𐑰 𐑛𐑵, 𐑲 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑐𐑫𐑑 𐑘𐑰 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑢𐑱 𐑝 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑑 𐑬𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑘𐑰 𐑚𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑘𐑹𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑑 𐑦𐑑, 𐑐𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑨𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑑. 𐑒𐑤𐑨𐑐 𐑲 𐑪𐑯 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚, 𐑘𐑳𐑙 𐑥𐑨𐑯, 𐑯 𐑞𐑬 𐑢𐑦𐑤𐑑 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑤𐑧𐑜.”</p>
    <p>“𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑛𐑵 𐑿 𐑥𐑰𐑯, 𐑕𐑻? 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑤𐑪𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤?”</p>
    <p>“𐑤𐑪𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤! 𐑘𐑳𐑙 𐑥𐑨𐑯, 𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑯𐑽𐑼 𐑑 𐑥𐑰: 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑛𐑦𐑝𐑬𐑼𐑛, 𐑗𐑵𐑛 𐑳𐑐, 𐑒𐑮𐑳𐑯𐑗𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑕𐑩𐑕𐑑 ·𐑐𐑸𐑥𐑩𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑦 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑗𐑦𐑐𐑑 𐑩 𐑚𐑴𐑑!—𐑭, 𐑭!”</p>
    <p>𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑩𐑤𐑸𐑥𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑡𐑦, 𐑐𐑼𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑕 𐑷𐑤𐑕𐑴 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑑𐑳𐑗𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑣𐑸𐑑𐑦 𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑓 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑵𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑒𐑤𐑩𐑥𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑨𐑟 𐑒𐑭𐑥𐑤𐑦 𐑨𐑟 𐑲 𐑒𐑫𐑛, “𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑿 𐑕𐑱 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑴 𐑛𐑬𐑑 𐑑𐑮𐑵 𐑦𐑯𐑳𐑓, 𐑕𐑻; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑣𐑬 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑲 𐑯𐑴 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑽 𐑓𐑼𐑪𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑐𐑼𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑼 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑞𐑴 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑰𐑛 𐑲 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑻𐑛 𐑨𐑟 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑤 𐑓𐑨𐑒𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑨𐑒𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑.”</p>
    <p>“𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑘𐑰 𐑯𐑬, 𐑘𐑳𐑙 𐑥𐑨𐑯, 𐑞𐑲 𐑤𐑳𐑙𐑟 𐑸 𐑩 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑕𐑪𐑓𐑑, 𐑛'𐑘𐑰 𐑕𐑰; 𐑞𐑬 𐑛𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑑𐑷𐑒 𐑖𐑸𐑒 𐑩 𐑚𐑦𐑑. <i>𐑖𐑫𐑼</i>, 𐑘𐑰'𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑑 𐑕𐑰 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑯𐑬; 𐑖𐑫𐑼 𐑝 𐑞𐑨𐑑?”</p>
    <p>“𐑕𐑻,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑲, “𐑲 𐑔𐑷𐑑 𐑲 𐑑𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑿 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑓𐑹 𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑻𐑗𐑩𐑯𐑑—”</p>
    <p>“𐑣𐑸𐑛 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑞𐑨𐑑! 𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑲 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑞 𐑥𐑸𐑗𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑕𐑻𐑝𐑦𐑕—𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑨𐑜𐑮𐑩𐑝𐑱𐑑 𐑥𐑰—𐑲 𐑢𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑦𐑑. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑳𐑕 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑰𐑗 𐑳𐑞𐑼. 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑜𐑦𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑞𐑰 𐑩 𐑣𐑦𐑯𐑑 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑟; 𐑛𐑵 𐑘𐑰 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑓𐑰𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑓 𐑦𐑑?”</p>
    <p>“𐑲 𐑛𐑵, 𐑕𐑻.”</p>
    <p>“𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑜𐑫𐑛. 𐑯𐑬, 𐑸𐑑 𐑞𐑬 𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑑 𐑐𐑦𐑗 𐑩 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑩 𐑤𐑲𐑝 𐑢𐑱𐑤'𐑟 𐑔𐑮𐑴𐑑, 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑡𐑳𐑥𐑐 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑦𐑑? 𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑼, 𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑒!”</p>
    <p>“𐑲 𐑨𐑥, 𐑕𐑻, 𐑦𐑓 𐑦𐑑 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑚𐑰 𐑐𐑪𐑟𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑝𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑑 𐑛𐑵 𐑕𐑴; 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑜𐑪𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑛 𐑝, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑟; 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑲 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑞 𐑓𐑨𐑒𐑑.”</p>
    <p>“𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯. 𐑯𐑬 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑞𐑬 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑑 𐑜𐑴 𐑩-𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙, 𐑑 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑬𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑽𐑾𐑯𐑕 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑟, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑘𐑰 𐑷𐑤𐑕𐑴 𐑢𐑪𐑯𐑑 𐑑 𐑜𐑴 𐑦𐑯 𐑹𐑛𐑼 𐑑 𐑕𐑰 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛? 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑘𐑰 𐑕𐑧𐑛? 𐑲 𐑔𐑷𐑑 𐑕𐑴. 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑐 𐑓𐑹𐑢𐑼𐑛 𐑞𐑺, 𐑯 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑩 𐑐𐑰𐑐 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 𐑢𐑧𐑞𐑼-𐑚𐑬, 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑚𐑨𐑒 𐑑 𐑥𐑰 𐑯 𐑑𐑧𐑤 𐑥𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑘𐑰 𐑕𐑰 𐑞𐑺.”</p>
    <p>𐑓 𐑩 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑲 𐑕𐑑𐑫𐑛 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑐𐑳𐑟𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑾𐑕 𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑕𐑑, 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑯𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑬 𐑑 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑦𐑑, 𐑢𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑣𐑿𐑥𐑼𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑹 𐑦𐑯 𐑻𐑯𐑩𐑕𐑑. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑮𐑴'𐑟 𐑓𐑰𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑕𐑒𐑬𐑤, ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑐𐑰𐑤𐑧𐑜 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑥𐑰 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑧𐑮𐑩𐑯𐑛.</p>
    <p>𐑜𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑹𐑢𐑼𐑛 𐑯 𐑜𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 𐑢𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑚𐑬, 𐑲 𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑰𐑝𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑙𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑣𐑻 𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑼 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑓𐑤𐑳𐑛-𐑑𐑲𐑛, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑬 𐑴𐑚𐑤𐑰𐑒𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑑𐑩𐑢𐑹𐑛𐑟 𐑞 𐑴𐑐𐑩𐑯 𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯. 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑳𐑯𐑤𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑰𐑛𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑯 𐑓𐑼𐑚𐑦𐑛𐑦𐑙; 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑝𐑼𐑲𐑩𐑑𐑦 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑲 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑕𐑰.</p>
    <p>“𐑢𐑧𐑤, 𐑢𐑪𐑑'𐑕 𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑹𐑑?” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 ·𐑐𐑰𐑤𐑧𐑜 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑲 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑚𐑨𐑒; “𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑘𐑰 𐑕𐑰?”</p>
    <p>“𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑥𐑳𐑗,” 𐑲 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑤𐑲𐑛—“𐑯𐑳𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼; 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑣𐑼𐑲𐑟𐑩𐑯 𐑞𐑴, 𐑯 𐑞𐑺'𐑟 𐑩 𐑕𐑒𐑢𐑷𐑤 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑐, 𐑲 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒.”</p>
    <p>“𐑢𐑧𐑤, 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑛𐑳𐑟 𐑞𐑬 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑝 𐑕𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛? 𐑛𐑵 𐑘𐑰 𐑢𐑦𐑖 𐑑 𐑜𐑴 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 ·𐑒𐑱𐑐 ·𐑣𐑹𐑯 𐑑 𐑕𐑰 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑥𐑹 𐑝 𐑦𐑑, 𐑱? 𐑒𐑭𐑯𐑑 𐑘𐑰 𐑕𐑰 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛 𐑢𐑺 𐑿 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛?”</p>
    <p>𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑜𐑼𐑛, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑜𐑴 𐑩-𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑲 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑, 𐑯 𐑲 𐑢𐑫𐑛; 𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑨𐑟 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑩 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑨𐑟 𐑧𐑯𐑦—𐑲 𐑔𐑷𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑧𐑕𐑑—𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑲 𐑯𐑬 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑰𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑑 ·𐑐𐑰𐑤𐑧𐑜. 𐑕𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑰 𐑕𐑴 𐑛𐑦𐑑𐑻𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑛, 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑙𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑑 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑥𐑰.</p>
    <p>“𐑯 𐑞𐑬 𐑥𐑱𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑕𐑲𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑱𐑐𐑼𐑟 𐑮𐑲𐑑 𐑪𐑓,” 𐑣𐑰 𐑨𐑛𐑩𐑛—“𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑘𐑰.” 𐑯 𐑕𐑴 𐑕𐑱𐑦𐑙, 𐑣𐑰 𐑤𐑧𐑛 𐑞 𐑢𐑱 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑴 𐑛𐑧𐑒 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑚𐑦𐑯.</p>
    <p>𐑕𐑰𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑥 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑑 𐑥𐑰 𐑩 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑳𐑯𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑯 𐑕𐑼𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑦𐑜𐑼. 𐑦𐑑 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑛 𐑬𐑑 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑨𐑛, 𐑣𐑵 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑞 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑐𐑰𐑤𐑧𐑜 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑤𐑸𐑡𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑴𐑯𐑼𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑝𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑤; 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑖𐑺𐑟, 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑞 𐑒𐑱𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑐𐑹𐑑𐑕, 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑩 𐑒𐑮𐑬𐑛 𐑝 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑨𐑯𐑿𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕; 𐑢𐑦𐑛𐑴𐑟, 𐑓𐑭𐑞𐑼𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑗𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑯, 𐑯 𐑗𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑼𐑦 𐑢𐑹𐑛𐑟; 𐑰𐑗 𐑴𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑞 𐑝𐑨𐑤𐑿 𐑝 𐑩 𐑑𐑦𐑥𐑚𐑼 𐑣𐑧𐑛, 𐑹 𐑩 𐑓𐑫𐑑 𐑝 𐑐𐑤𐑨𐑙𐑒, 𐑹 𐑩 𐑯𐑱𐑤 𐑹 𐑑𐑵 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐. 𐑐𐑰𐑐𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑥𐑳𐑯𐑦 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑝𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑟, 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑢𐑱 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑿 𐑛𐑵 𐑘𐑹𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑩𐑐𐑮𐑵𐑝𐑛 𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑪𐑒𐑕 𐑚𐑮𐑦𐑙𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑩𐑕𐑑.</p>
    <p>𐑯𐑬, ·𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑨𐑛, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 ·𐑐𐑰𐑤𐑧𐑜, 𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑰𐑛 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑳𐑞𐑼 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑𐑼𐑟, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 ·𐑒𐑢𐑱𐑒𐑼, 𐑞 𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑼𐑦𐑡𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑧𐑒𐑑; 𐑯 𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑛𐑱 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑦𐑯𐑣𐑨𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑱𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑩𐑯 𐑳𐑯𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑥𐑧𐑠𐑼 𐑞 𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑦𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑢𐑱𐑒𐑼, 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑝𐑺𐑾𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑯 𐑩𐑯𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑥𐑪𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑲𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑷𐑤𐑑𐑩𐑜𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑱𐑤𐑾𐑯 𐑯 𐑣𐑧𐑑𐑼𐑩𐑡𐑰𐑯𐑾𐑕. 𐑓 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑝 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑕𐑱𐑥 ·𐑒𐑢𐑱𐑒𐑼𐑟 𐑸 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑨𐑙𐑜𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑼𐑦 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼𐑟 𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑟. 𐑞𐑱 𐑸 𐑓𐑲𐑑𐑦𐑙 ·𐑒𐑢𐑱𐑒𐑼𐑟; 𐑞𐑱 𐑸 ·𐑒𐑢𐑱𐑒𐑼𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑡𐑩𐑯𐑕.</p>
    <p>𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑸 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑝 𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑣𐑵, 𐑯𐑱𐑥𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 ·𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑗𐑼 𐑯𐑱𐑥𐑟—𐑩 𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑿𐑤𐑼𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑓𐑨𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛—𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑗𐑲𐑤𐑛𐑣𐑫𐑛 𐑯𐑨𐑗𐑼𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑥𐑚𐑲𐑚𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑞𐑰 𐑯 𐑞𐑬 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑢𐑱𐑒𐑼 𐑦𐑛𐑾𐑥; 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤, 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑷𐑛𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑕, 𐑛𐑺𐑦𐑙, 𐑯 𐑚𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑩𐑛𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑗𐑼 𐑝 𐑞𐑺 𐑕𐑳𐑚𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑢𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑝𐑟, 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑤𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑳𐑯𐑬𐑑𐑜𐑮𐑴𐑯 𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑦𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑟, 𐑩 𐑔𐑬𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑚𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑛𐑨𐑖𐑩𐑟 𐑝 𐑒𐑨𐑮𐑩𐑒𐑑𐑼, 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑳𐑯𐑢𐑻𐑞𐑦 𐑩 ·𐑕𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑱𐑝𐑾𐑯 𐑕𐑰-𐑒𐑦𐑙, 𐑹 𐑩 𐑐𐑴𐑧𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 ·𐑐𐑱𐑜𐑩𐑯 ·𐑮𐑴𐑥𐑩𐑯. 𐑯 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑿𐑯𐑲𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑝 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑵𐑐𐑽𐑽 𐑯𐑨𐑗𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑓𐑹𐑕, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑜𐑤𐑪𐑚𐑿𐑤𐑼 𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑯 𐑯 𐑩 𐑐𐑪𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑩𐑕 𐑣𐑸𐑑; 𐑣𐑵 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑷𐑤𐑕𐑴 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑯 𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑵𐑠𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑯𐑲𐑑-𐑢𐑪𐑗𐑩𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑴𐑑𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼𐑟, 𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑯𐑰𐑔 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑕𐑰𐑯 𐑣𐑽 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑯𐑹𐑔, 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑤𐑧𐑛 𐑑 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑛𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦; 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑰𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑷𐑤 𐑯𐑱𐑗𐑼'𐑟 𐑕𐑢𐑰𐑑 𐑹 𐑕𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑡 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑖 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑻 𐑴𐑯 𐑝𐑻𐑡𐑦𐑯 𐑝𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑯 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑓𐑲𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑, 𐑯 𐑞𐑺𐑚𐑲 𐑗𐑰𐑓𐑤𐑦, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑐 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑨𐑒𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑩𐑛𐑝𐑭𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑟, 𐑑 𐑤𐑻𐑯 𐑩 𐑚𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑯 𐑯𐑻𐑝𐑩𐑕 𐑤𐑪𐑓𐑑𐑦 𐑤𐑨𐑙𐑜𐑢𐑦𐑡—𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑥𐑱𐑒𐑕 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑯𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯'𐑟 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑕—𐑩 𐑥𐑲𐑑𐑦 𐑐𐑨𐑡𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑗𐑼, 𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑛 𐑓 𐑯𐑴𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑡𐑩𐑛𐑦𐑟. 𐑯𐑹 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑦𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑛𐑦𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑒𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑸𐑛𐑩𐑛, 𐑦𐑓 𐑲𐑞𐑼 𐑚𐑲 𐑚𐑻𐑔 𐑹 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟, 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑟 𐑩 𐑣𐑭𐑓 𐑢𐑦𐑤𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑴𐑝𐑼𐑮𐑵𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑹𐑚𐑦𐑛𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑥 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑱𐑗𐑼. 𐑓 𐑷𐑤 𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑡𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑦 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑸 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑕𐑴 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑩 𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑥𐑹𐑚𐑦𐑛𐑯𐑩𐑕. 𐑚𐑰 𐑖𐑫𐑼 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕, 𐑴 𐑘𐑳𐑙 𐑨𐑥𐑚𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑷𐑤 𐑥𐑹𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑟𐑰𐑟. 𐑚𐑳𐑑, 𐑨𐑟 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑢𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑑 𐑛𐑵 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑩𐑯𐑳𐑞𐑼; 𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑩 𐑥𐑨𐑯, 𐑣𐑵, 𐑦𐑓 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑰𐑛 𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑽, 𐑦𐑑 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑳𐑤𐑑𐑕 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑩𐑯𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑓𐑱𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑢𐑱𐑒𐑼, 𐑥𐑪𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑲𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑡𐑵𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟.</p>
    <p>𐑤𐑲𐑒 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑐𐑰𐑤𐑧𐑜, ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑨𐑛 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑢𐑧𐑤-𐑑-𐑛𐑵, 𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑲𐑼𐑛 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑥𐑩𐑯. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑳𐑯𐑤𐑲𐑒 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑐𐑰𐑤𐑧𐑜—𐑣𐑵 𐑒𐑺𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑩 𐑮𐑳𐑖 𐑓 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑸 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛 𐑕𐑽𐑾𐑕 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑟, 𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑰𐑛 𐑛𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓-𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑕𐑽𐑾𐑕 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑞 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑾𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑟—·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑨𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑼𐑦𐑡𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑧𐑡𐑩𐑒𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑩𐑒𐑹𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑧𐑒𐑑 𐑝 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑 ·𐑒𐑢𐑱𐑒𐑼𐑦𐑟𐑩𐑥, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑚𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑢𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑤𐑲𐑓, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑲𐑑 𐑝 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑳𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑨𐑛, 𐑤𐑳𐑝𐑤𐑦 𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑗𐑼𐑟, 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑞 ·𐑣𐑹𐑯—𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑥𐑵𐑝𐑛 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑯𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑝 𐑚𐑹𐑯 ·𐑒𐑢𐑱𐑒𐑼 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑩𐑤 𐑡𐑪𐑑, 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑴 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑨𐑟 𐑷𐑤𐑑𐑼𐑛 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑨𐑙𐑜𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑝𐑧𐑕𐑑. 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤, 𐑓 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑦𐑥𐑿𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑯𐑩𐑕, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞𐑺 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑤𐑨𐑒 𐑝 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑢𐑻𐑞𐑦 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑨𐑛. 𐑞𐑴 𐑮𐑦𐑓𐑿𐑟𐑦𐑙, 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑖𐑦𐑧𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑕 𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑐𐑩𐑤𐑟, 𐑑 𐑚𐑺 𐑸𐑥𐑟 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑱𐑛𐑼𐑟, 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑱𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑞 ·𐑩𐑑𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑯 ·𐑐𐑩𐑕𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒; 𐑯 𐑞𐑴 𐑩 𐑕𐑢𐑹𐑯 𐑓𐑴 𐑑 𐑣𐑿𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑛𐑖𐑧𐑛, 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑-𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑒𐑴𐑑, 𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑤𐑛 𐑑𐑳𐑯𐑟 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑑𐑳𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯 𐑜𐑹. 𐑣𐑬 𐑯𐑬 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑩𐑑𐑦𐑝 𐑰𐑝𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑱𐑟, 𐑞 𐑐𐑲𐑩𐑕 ·𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑨𐑛 𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑲𐑤𐑛 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑮𐑧𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑕, 𐑲 𐑛𐑵 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑯𐑴; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥 𐑑 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑻𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑥𐑳𐑗, 𐑯 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑚𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑕 𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑡 𐑯 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑵𐑠𐑩𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑩 𐑥𐑨𐑯'𐑟 𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑔𐑦𐑙, 𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑐𐑮𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛 𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑩𐑯𐑳𐑞𐑼. 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛 𐑐𐑱𐑟 𐑛𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑛𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑟. 𐑮𐑲𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑨𐑚𐑦𐑯-𐑚𐑶 𐑦𐑯 𐑖𐑹𐑑 𐑒𐑤𐑴𐑞𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑛𐑮𐑨𐑚𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑛𐑮𐑨𐑚, 𐑑 𐑩 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑚𐑮𐑷𐑛 𐑖𐑨𐑛-𐑚𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑛 𐑢𐑱𐑕𐑑𐑒𐑴𐑑; 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑴𐑑-𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑼, 𐑗𐑰𐑓-𐑥𐑱𐑑, 𐑯 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯, 𐑯 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑩 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑴𐑯𐑼; ·𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑨𐑛, 𐑨𐑟 𐑲 𐑣𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹, 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑵𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑩𐑛𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑗𐑼𐑩𐑕 𐑒𐑼𐑽 𐑚𐑲 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑲𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑦𐑝 𐑤𐑲𐑓 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑜𐑫𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑱𐑡 𐑝 𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑦, 𐑯 𐑛𐑧𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑛𐑱𐑟 𐑑 𐑞 𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑩𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑰𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑧𐑤-𐑻𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑳𐑥.</p>
    <p>𐑯𐑬, ·𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑨𐑛, 𐑲 𐑨𐑥 𐑕𐑪𐑮𐑦 𐑑 𐑕𐑱, 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑞 𐑮𐑧𐑐𐑿𐑑𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑣𐑳𐑙𐑒𐑕, 𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑰-𐑜𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑛𐑱𐑟, 𐑩 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑼, 𐑣𐑸𐑛 𐑑𐑭𐑕𐑒-𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑼. 𐑞𐑱 𐑑𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑥𐑰 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑, 𐑞𐑴 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑟 𐑩 𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑾𐑕 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑦, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑛 𐑞 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑒𐑨𐑑𐑩𐑜𐑫𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑥𐑩𐑯, 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑮𐑵, 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑼𐑲𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑴𐑥, 𐑢𐑻 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑷𐑤 𐑒𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑛 𐑩𐑖𐑹 𐑑 𐑞 𐑣𐑪𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤, 𐑕𐑹 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑷𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑯 𐑢𐑹𐑯 𐑬𐑑. 𐑓 𐑩 𐑐𐑲𐑩𐑕 𐑥𐑨𐑯, 𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑓 𐑩 ·𐑒𐑢𐑱𐑒𐑼, 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑭𐑞𐑼 𐑣𐑸𐑛-𐑣𐑸𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑑 𐑕𐑱 𐑞 𐑤𐑰𐑕𐑑. 𐑣𐑰 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑿𐑕𐑑 𐑑 𐑕𐑢𐑺, 𐑞𐑴, 𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑞𐑱 𐑕𐑧𐑛; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑣𐑬 𐑣𐑰 𐑜𐑪𐑑 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑹𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑑 𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑩𐑤, 𐑳𐑯𐑥𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑜𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑸𐑛 𐑢𐑻𐑒 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑞𐑧𐑥. 𐑢𐑧𐑯 ·𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑨𐑛 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑗𐑰𐑓-𐑥𐑱𐑑, 𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑮𐑨𐑚-𐑒𐑳𐑤𐑼𐑛 𐑲 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑑 𐑿, 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑿 𐑓𐑰𐑤 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑰𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑯𐑻𐑝𐑩𐑕, 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑿 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑒𐑤𐑳𐑗 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑔𐑦𐑙—𐑩 𐑣𐑨𐑥𐑼 𐑹 𐑩 𐑥𐑸𐑤𐑦𐑙-𐑕𐑐𐑲𐑒, 𐑯 𐑜𐑴 𐑑 𐑢𐑻𐑒 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑥𐑨𐑛, 𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑹 𐑳𐑞𐑼, 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑢𐑪𐑑. 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑯 𐑲𐑛𐑩𐑤𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑐𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑖𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑣𐑦𐑥. 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯 𐑐𐑻𐑕𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑨𐑒𐑑 𐑦𐑥𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑿𐑑𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑼𐑾𐑯 𐑒𐑨𐑮𐑩𐑒𐑑𐑼. 𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑪𐑙, 𐑜𐑷𐑯𐑑 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦, 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑛 𐑯𐑴 𐑕𐑐𐑺 𐑓𐑤𐑧𐑖, 𐑯𐑴 𐑕𐑵𐑐𐑻𐑓𐑤𐑵𐑩𐑕 𐑚𐑽𐑛, 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑗𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑕𐑪𐑓𐑑, 𐑰𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑪𐑥𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑯𐑨𐑐 𐑑 𐑦𐑑, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞 𐑢𐑹𐑯 𐑯𐑨𐑐 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑮𐑷𐑛-𐑚𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑑.</p>
    <p>𐑕𐑳𐑗, 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑐𐑻𐑕𐑩𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑲 𐑕𐑷 𐑕𐑰𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑥 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑲 𐑓𐑪𐑤𐑴𐑛 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑐𐑰𐑤𐑧𐑜 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑚𐑦𐑯. 𐑞 𐑕𐑐𐑱𐑕 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑢𐑰𐑯 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑒𐑕 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤; 𐑯 𐑞𐑺, 𐑚𐑴𐑤𐑑-𐑳𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑑, 𐑕𐑨𐑑 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑨𐑛, 𐑣𐑵 𐑷𐑤𐑢𐑱𐑟 𐑕𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑴, 𐑯 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑤𐑰𐑯𐑛, 𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑑 𐑕𐑱𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑴𐑑 𐑑𐑱𐑤𐑟. 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑮𐑷𐑛-𐑚𐑮𐑦𐑥 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥; 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑧𐑜𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑓𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑮𐑪𐑕𐑑; 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑮𐑨𐑚 𐑝𐑧𐑕𐑗𐑼 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑚𐑳𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑳𐑐 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑗𐑦𐑯; 𐑯 𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑪𐑯 𐑯𐑴𐑟, 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑩𐑚𐑕𐑹𐑚𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑮𐑰𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑩 𐑐𐑪𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑩𐑕 𐑝𐑪𐑤𐑿𐑥.</p>
    <p>“·𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑨𐑛,” 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑐𐑰𐑤𐑧𐑜, “𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯, ·𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑨𐑛, 𐑱? 𐑘𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑛𐑦𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑴𐑟 ·𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑗𐑼𐑟, 𐑯𐑬, 𐑓 𐑞 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑔𐑻𐑑𐑦 𐑘𐑽𐑟, 𐑑 𐑥𐑲 𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑯𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑡. 𐑣𐑬 𐑓𐑸 𐑘𐑰 𐑜𐑪𐑑, ·𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑨𐑛?”</p>
    <p>𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑓 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑣𐑩𐑚𐑦𐑗𐑵𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑓𐑱𐑯 𐑑𐑷𐑒 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑥𐑱𐑑, ·𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑨𐑛, 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑 𐑯𐑴𐑑𐑦𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑕, 𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑩𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑑 𐑳𐑐, 𐑯 𐑕𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑰, 𐑜𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑼𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑑𐑩𐑢𐑹𐑛𐑟 ·𐑐𐑰𐑤𐑧𐑜.</p>
    <p>“𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑧𐑟 𐑣𐑰'𐑟 𐑬𐑼 𐑥𐑨𐑯, ·𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑨𐑛,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 ·𐑐𐑰𐑤𐑧𐑜, “𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑑 𐑖𐑦𐑐.”</p>
    <p>“𐑛𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑰?” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 ·𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑨𐑛, 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑣𐑪𐑤𐑴 𐑑𐑴𐑯, 𐑯 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑥𐑰.</p>
    <p>“𐑲 <i>𐑛𐑳𐑕𐑑</i>,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑲 𐑳𐑯𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦, 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑴 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑕 𐑩 ·𐑒𐑢𐑱𐑒𐑼.</p>
    <p>“𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑛𐑵 𐑘𐑰 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑥, ·𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑨𐑛?” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 ·𐑐𐑰𐑤𐑧𐑜.</p>
    <p>“𐑣𐑰'𐑤 𐑛𐑵,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 ·𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑨𐑛, 𐑲𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑰, 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑢𐑱 𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑫𐑒 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑥𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑑𐑴𐑯 𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑷𐑛𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤.</p>
    <p>𐑲 𐑔𐑷𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑞 𐑒𐑢𐑽𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑒𐑢𐑱𐑒𐑼 𐑲 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑕𐑷, 𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑨𐑟 ·𐑐𐑰𐑤𐑧𐑜, 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑯 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑥𐑱𐑑, 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑼. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑲 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑯𐑳𐑔𐑦𐑙, 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑥𐑰 𐑖𐑸𐑐𐑤𐑦. ·𐑐𐑰𐑤𐑧𐑜 𐑯𐑬 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑴𐑐𐑩𐑯 𐑩 𐑗𐑧𐑕𐑑, 𐑯 𐑛𐑮𐑷𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑹𐑔 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐'𐑕 𐑸𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑟, 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕𐑑 𐑐𐑧𐑯 𐑯 𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑯 𐑕𐑰𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑨𐑑 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑑𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤. 𐑲 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑨𐑯 𐑑 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑣𐑲 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑑 𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑥𐑲𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑑𐑻𐑥𐑟 𐑲 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑚𐑰 𐑢𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑜𐑱𐑡 𐑓 𐑞 𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡. 𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑷𐑤𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑦 𐑩𐑢𐑺 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑦𐑟𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑞𐑱 𐑐𐑱𐑛 𐑯𐑴 𐑢𐑱𐑡𐑩𐑟; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟, 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑵𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯, 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑰𐑝𐑛 𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑖𐑺𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑓𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛 <i>𐑤𐑱𐑟</i>, 𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑤𐑱𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑐𐑹𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑞 𐑛𐑦𐑜𐑮𐑰 𐑝 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑹𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑐𐑼𐑑𐑱𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑦𐑝 𐑛𐑿𐑑𐑦𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐'𐑕 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑦. 𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑷𐑤𐑕𐑴 𐑩𐑢𐑺 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙, 𐑥𐑲 𐑴𐑯 𐑤𐑱 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑤𐑸𐑡; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑿𐑟𐑛 𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑰, 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑕𐑑𐑽 𐑩 𐑖𐑦𐑐, 𐑕𐑐𐑤𐑲𐑕 𐑩 𐑮𐑴𐑐, 𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑨𐑑, 𐑲 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑯𐑴 𐑛𐑬𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑷𐑤 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑣𐑻𐑛 𐑲 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑚𐑰 𐑪𐑓𐑼𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑰𐑕𐑑 𐑞 275𐑔 𐑤𐑱—𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑟, 𐑞 275𐑔 𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑒𐑤𐑽 𐑯𐑧𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑕𐑰𐑛𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡, 𐑢𐑪𐑑𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑦𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑗𐑵𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑥𐑬𐑯𐑑 𐑑. 𐑯 𐑞𐑴 𐑞 275𐑔 𐑤𐑱 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑞𐑱 𐑒𐑷𐑤 𐑩 𐑮𐑭𐑞𐑼 <i>𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑤𐑱</i>, 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑚𐑧𐑑𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑯𐑳𐑔𐑦𐑙; 𐑯 𐑦𐑓 𐑢𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑩 𐑤𐑳𐑒𐑦 𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡, 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑯𐑽𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑱 𐑓 𐑞 𐑒𐑤𐑴𐑞𐑦𐑙 𐑲 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑢𐑺 𐑬𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑦𐑑, 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑒 𐑝 𐑥𐑲 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑘𐑽𐑟' 𐑚𐑰𐑓 𐑯 𐑚𐑹𐑛, 𐑓 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑲 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑓 𐑑 𐑐𐑱 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑲𐑝𐑼.</p>
    <p>𐑦𐑑 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑔𐑷𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑐𐑫𐑼 𐑢𐑱 𐑑 𐑩𐑒𐑿𐑥𐑿𐑤𐑱𐑑 𐑩 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑹𐑗𐑵𐑯—𐑯 𐑕𐑴 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟, 𐑩 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑐𐑫𐑼 𐑢𐑱 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑰𐑛. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑲 𐑨𐑥 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑪𐑯 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑹𐑗𐑵𐑯𐑟, 𐑯 𐑨𐑥 𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑦𐑓 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛 𐑦𐑟 𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑦 𐑑 𐑚𐑹𐑛 𐑯 𐑤𐑪𐑡 𐑥𐑰, 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑲 𐑨𐑥 𐑐𐑫𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑐 𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑜𐑮𐑦𐑥 𐑕𐑲𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑔𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼 ·𐑒𐑤𐑬𐑛. 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑤, 𐑲 𐑔𐑷𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 275𐑔 𐑤𐑱 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑚𐑰 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑞 𐑓𐑺 𐑔𐑦𐑙, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑕𐑼𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑟𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑲 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑪𐑓𐑼𐑛 𐑞 200𐑔, 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑝 𐑩 𐑚𐑮𐑷𐑛-𐑖𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑼𐑛 𐑥𐑱𐑒.</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑔𐑦𐑙, 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑞𐑩𐑤𐑧𐑕, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑥𐑰 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑕𐑑𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑰𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑕 𐑖𐑺 𐑝 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑓𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞𐑦𐑕: 𐑩𐑖𐑹, 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑣𐑻𐑛 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑚𐑴𐑔 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑐𐑰𐑤𐑧𐑜 𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑳𐑯𐑩𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑒𐑮𐑴𐑯𐑦 ·𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑨𐑛; 𐑣𐑬 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑱 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑐𐑩𐑤 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑩𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛, 𐑞𐑺𐑓𐑹 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑯 𐑥𐑹 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑯 𐑕𐑒𐑨𐑑𐑼𐑛 𐑴𐑯𐑼𐑟, 𐑤𐑧𐑓𐑑 𐑯𐑽𐑤𐑦 𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑡𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐'𐑕 𐑩𐑓𐑺𐑟 𐑑 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑑𐑵. 𐑯 𐑲 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑯𐑴 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑡𐑦 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑨𐑛 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑩 𐑥𐑲𐑑𐑦 𐑛𐑰𐑤 𐑑 𐑕𐑱 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟, 𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑨𐑟 𐑲 𐑯𐑬 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑪𐑯 𐑚𐑹𐑛 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛, 𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑴𐑥 𐑞𐑺 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑚𐑦𐑯, 𐑯 𐑮𐑰𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 ·𐑚𐑲𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑓 𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯 𐑓𐑲𐑼𐑕𐑲𐑛. 𐑯𐑬 𐑢𐑲𐑤 ·𐑐𐑰𐑤𐑧𐑜 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑝𐑱𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑩 𐑐𐑧𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑡𐑨𐑒-𐑯𐑲𐑓, 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑨𐑛, 𐑑 𐑥𐑲 𐑯𐑴 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤 𐑕𐑼𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑟, 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑩𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑐𐑸𐑑𐑦 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑕𐑰𐑛𐑦𐑙𐑟; ·𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑨𐑛 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑣𐑰𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑳𐑕, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑥𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑫𐑒, “<i>𐑤𐑱</i> 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑳𐑐 𐑓 𐑘𐑹𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑝𐑟 𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑠𐑼𐑟 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑻𐑔, 𐑢𐑺 𐑥𐑪𐑔—”</p>
    <p>“𐑢𐑧𐑤, ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑨𐑛,” 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑳𐑐𐑑𐑩𐑛 ·𐑐𐑰𐑤𐑧𐑜, “𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑛'𐑘𐑰 𐑕𐑱, 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑤𐑱 𐑖𐑨𐑤 𐑢𐑰 𐑜𐑦𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑘𐑳𐑙 𐑥𐑨𐑯?”</p>
    <p>“𐑞𐑬 𐑯𐑴𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑧𐑕𐑑,” 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑕𐑧𐑐𐑩𐑤𐑒𐑮𐑩𐑤 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑤𐑲, “𐑞 𐑕𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑛 𐑯 𐑕𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦-𐑕𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯𐑔 𐑢𐑫𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑑𐑵 𐑥𐑳𐑗, 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑦𐑑?—'𐑢𐑺 𐑥𐑪𐑔 𐑯 𐑮𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑛𐑵 𐑒𐑼𐑳𐑐𐑑, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 <i>𐑤𐑱</i>—'”</p>
    <p><i>𐑤𐑱</i>, 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑰𐑛, 𐑔𐑷𐑑 𐑲, 𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑤𐑱! 𐑞 𐑕𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑛 𐑯 𐑕𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦-𐑕𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯𐑔! 𐑢𐑧𐑤, 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑨𐑛, 𐑿 𐑸 𐑛𐑦𐑑𐑻𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑲, 𐑓 𐑢𐑳𐑯, 𐑖𐑨𐑤 𐑯𐑪𐑑 <i>𐑤𐑱</i> 𐑳𐑐 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 <i>𐑤𐑱𐑟</i> 𐑣𐑽 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑴, 𐑢𐑺 𐑥𐑪𐑔 𐑯 𐑮𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑛𐑵 𐑒𐑼𐑳𐑐𐑑. 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑰𐑛𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 <i>𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑤𐑱</i> 𐑞𐑨𐑑, 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑰𐑛; 𐑯 𐑞𐑴 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑜𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 𐑓𐑦𐑜𐑼 𐑦𐑑 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑰𐑝 𐑩 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟𐑥𐑩𐑯, 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑼𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑖𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑴 𐑕𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑛 𐑯 𐑕𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦-𐑕𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑟 𐑩 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑤𐑸𐑡 𐑯𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑼, 𐑘𐑧𐑑, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑿 𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑑 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑩 <i>𐑑𐑰𐑯𐑔</i> 𐑝 𐑦𐑑, 𐑿 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑕𐑰, 𐑲 𐑕𐑱, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑛 𐑯 𐑕𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦-𐑕𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯𐑔 𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑝 𐑩 𐑓𐑸𐑞𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑟 𐑩 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑛𐑰𐑤 𐑤𐑧𐑕 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑕𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑛 𐑯 𐑕𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦-𐑕𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑜𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑛𐑳𐑚𐑤𐑵𐑯𐑟; 𐑯 𐑕𐑴 𐑲 𐑔𐑷𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑑𐑲𐑥.</p>
    <p>“𐑢𐑲, 𐑚𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑘𐑹 𐑲𐑟, ·𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑨𐑛,” 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 ·𐑐𐑰𐑤𐑧𐑜, “𐑞𐑬 𐑛𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑯𐑑 𐑑 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑤 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑘𐑳𐑙 𐑥𐑨𐑯! 𐑣𐑰 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑥𐑹 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑.”</p>
    <p>“𐑕𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑛 𐑯 𐑕𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦-𐑕𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯𐑔,” 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯 𐑕𐑧𐑛 ·𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑨𐑛, 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑 𐑤𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑲𐑟; 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑥𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙—“𐑓 𐑢𐑺 𐑘𐑹 𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑠𐑼 𐑦𐑟, 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑘𐑹 𐑣𐑸𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑷𐑤𐑕𐑴.”</p>
    <p>“𐑲 𐑨𐑥 𐑜𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑐𐑫𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑓 𐑞 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑛𐑔,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 ·𐑐𐑰𐑤𐑧𐑜, “𐑛𐑵 𐑘𐑰 𐑣𐑽 𐑞𐑨𐑑, ·𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑨𐑛! 𐑞 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑛𐑔 𐑤𐑱, 𐑲 𐑕𐑱.”</p>
    <p>·𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑨𐑛 𐑤𐑱𐑛 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑫𐑒, 𐑯 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑥𐑤𐑦 𐑑𐑩𐑢𐑹𐑛𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑕𐑧𐑛, “𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑐𐑰𐑤𐑧𐑜, 𐑞𐑬 𐑣𐑨𐑕𐑑 𐑩 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑕 𐑣𐑸𐑑; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑬 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑼 𐑞 𐑛𐑿𐑑𐑦 𐑞𐑬 𐑴𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑑 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑴𐑯𐑼𐑟 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑖𐑦𐑐—𐑢𐑦𐑛𐑴𐑟 𐑯 𐑹𐑓𐑩𐑯𐑟, 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑝 𐑞𐑧𐑥—𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑓 𐑢𐑰 𐑑𐑵 𐑩𐑚𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑦𐑢𐑹𐑛 𐑞 𐑤𐑱𐑚𐑼𐑟 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑘𐑳𐑙 𐑥𐑨𐑯, 𐑢𐑰 𐑥𐑱 𐑚𐑰 𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑚𐑮𐑧𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑛𐑴𐑟 𐑯 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑹𐑓𐑩𐑯𐑟. 𐑞 𐑕𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑛 𐑯 𐑕𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦-𐑕𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯𐑔 𐑤𐑱, ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑐𐑰𐑤𐑧𐑜.”</p>
    <p>“𐑞𐑬 ·𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑨𐑛!” 𐑮𐑹𐑛 ·𐑐𐑰𐑤𐑧𐑜, 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑐 𐑯 𐑒𐑤𐑨𐑑𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑚𐑦𐑯. “𐑚𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑘𐑰, ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑨𐑛, 𐑦𐑓 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑓𐑪𐑤𐑴𐑛 𐑞𐑲 𐑩𐑛𐑝𐑲𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑼𐑟, 𐑲 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑩𐑓𐑹 𐑯𐑬 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑩 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑑 𐑤𐑳𐑜 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑚𐑰 𐑣𐑧𐑝𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑳𐑓 𐑑 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑞 𐑤𐑸𐑡𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑛 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 ·𐑒𐑱𐑐 ·𐑣𐑹𐑯.”</p>
    <p>“𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑐𐑰𐑤𐑧𐑜,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 ·𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑨𐑛 𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑦, “𐑞𐑲 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑥𐑱 𐑚𐑰 𐑛𐑮𐑷𐑦𐑙 𐑑𐑧𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑗𐑩𐑟 𐑝 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼, 𐑹 𐑑𐑧𐑯 𐑓𐑨𐑞𐑩𐑥𐑟, 𐑲 𐑒𐑭𐑯𐑑 𐑑𐑧𐑤; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑬 𐑸𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑯, ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑐𐑰𐑤𐑧𐑜, 𐑲 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑽 𐑤𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑲 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑚𐑰 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 𐑤𐑰𐑒𐑦 𐑢𐑳𐑯; 𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑞𐑰 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑑 𐑞 𐑓𐑲𐑼𐑦 𐑐𐑦𐑑, ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑐𐑰𐑤𐑧𐑜.”</p>
    <p>“𐑓𐑲𐑼𐑦 𐑐𐑦𐑑! 𐑓𐑲𐑼𐑦 𐑐𐑦𐑑! 𐑘𐑰 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑳𐑤𐑑 𐑥𐑰, 𐑥𐑨𐑯; 𐑐𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑯𐑨𐑗𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑚𐑺𐑦𐑙, 𐑘𐑰 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑳𐑤𐑑 𐑥𐑰. 𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑩𐑯 𐑷𐑤-𐑓𐑲𐑼𐑛 𐑬𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑡 𐑑 𐑑𐑧𐑤 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑣𐑿𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑗𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑰'𐑟 𐑚𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑣𐑧𐑤. 𐑓𐑤𐑵𐑒𐑕 𐑯 𐑓𐑤𐑱𐑥𐑟! ·𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑨𐑛, 𐑕𐑱 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯 𐑑 𐑥𐑰, 𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑑 𐑥𐑲 𐑕𐑴𐑤-𐑚𐑴𐑤𐑑𐑕, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑲'𐑤—𐑲'𐑤—𐑘𐑧𐑕, 𐑲'𐑤 𐑕𐑢𐑪𐑤𐑴 𐑩 𐑤𐑲𐑝 𐑜𐑴𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑺 𐑯 𐑣𐑹𐑯𐑟 𐑪𐑯. 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑚𐑦𐑯, 𐑘𐑰 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑙, 𐑛𐑮𐑨𐑚-𐑒𐑳𐑤𐑼𐑛 𐑕𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑩 𐑢𐑫𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑜𐑳𐑯—𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑒 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑘𐑰!”</p>
    <p>𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑔𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑛 𐑬𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑣𐑰 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑩 𐑮𐑳𐑖 𐑨𐑑 ·𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑨𐑛, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑥𐑸𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑴𐑚𐑤𐑰𐑒, 𐑕𐑤𐑲𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑦, ·𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑨𐑛 𐑓 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑦𐑤𐑵𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥.</p>
    <p>𐑩𐑤𐑸𐑥𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑑𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑬𐑑𐑚𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑢𐑰𐑯 𐑞 𐑑𐑵 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑐𐑩𐑤 𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑴𐑯𐑼𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐, 𐑯 𐑓𐑰𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑭𐑓 𐑩 𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑜𐑦𐑝 𐑳𐑐 𐑷𐑤 𐑲𐑛𐑾 𐑝 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑝𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑴 𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑕𐑗𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑴𐑯𐑛 𐑯 𐑑𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑼𐑺𐑦𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛, 𐑲 𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑐𐑑 𐑩𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑛𐑹 𐑑 𐑜𐑦𐑝 𐑰𐑜𐑮𐑧𐑕 𐑑 ·𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑨𐑛, 𐑣𐑵, 𐑲 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑯𐑴 𐑛𐑬𐑑, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑷𐑤 𐑰𐑜𐑼𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑑 𐑝𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑖 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑞 𐑩𐑢𐑱𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑮𐑪𐑔 𐑝 ·𐑐𐑰𐑤𐑧𐑜. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑑 𐑥𐑲 𐑩𐑕𐑑𐑪𐑯𐑦𐑖𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑, 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑨𐑑 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑥 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑩𐑑𐑤𐑦, 𐑯 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑛𐑮𐑷𐑦𐑙. 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑿𐑟𐑛 𐑑 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑 ·𐑐𐑰𐑤𐑧𐑜 𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑱𐑟. 𐑨𐑟 𐑓 ·𐑐𐑰𐑤𐑧𐑜, 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑤𐑧𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑓 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑮𐑱𐑡 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛, 𐑞𐑺 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑯𐑴 𐑥𐑹 𐑤𐑧𐑓𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑯 𐑣𐑰, 𐑑𐑵, 𐑕𐑨𐑑 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑤𐑨𐑥, 𐑞𐑴 𐑣𐑰 𐑑𐑢𐑦𐑗𐑑 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑓 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑯𐑻𐑝𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑨𐑡𐑦𐑑𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛. “𐑓𐑿!” 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑦𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑—“𐑞 𐑕𐑒𐑢𐑷𐑤'𐑟 𐑜𐑪𐑯 𐑪𐑓 𐑑 𐑤𐑰𐑢𐑼𐑛, 𐑲 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒. ·𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑨𐑛, 𐑞𐑬 𐑿𐑟𐑛 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑖𐑸𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕, 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑐𐑧𐑯, 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑘𐑰. 𐑥𐑲 𐑡𐑨𐑒-𐑯𐑲𐑓 𐑣𐑽 𐑯𐑰𐑛𐑟 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑲𐑯𐑛𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑯. 𐑞𐑨𐑑'𐑕 𐑣𐑰; 𐑔𐑨𐑙𐑒 𐑘𐑰, ·𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑨𐑛. 𐑯𐑬 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑥𐑲 𐑘𐑳𐑙 𐑥𐑨𐑯, ·𐑦𐑖𐑥𐑱𐑩𐑤'𐑟 𐑞𐑲 𐑯𐑱𐑥, 𐑛𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑘𐑰 𐑕𐑱? 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑘𐑰 𐑜𐑴 𐑣𐑽, ·𐑦𐑖𐑥𐑱𐑩𐑤, 𐑓 𐑞 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑛𐑔 𐑤𐑱.”</p>
    <p>“𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑐𐑰𐑤𐑧𐑜,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑲, “𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑩 𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑥𐑰 𐑣𐑵 𐑢𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑑 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑑𐑵—𐑖𐑨𐑤 𐑲 𐑚𐑮𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑑-𐑥𐑪𐑮𐑴?”</p>
    <p>“𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑖𐑫𐑼,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 ·𐑐𐑰𐑤𐑧𐑜. “𐑓𐑧𐑗 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙, 𐑯 𐑢𐑰'𐑤 𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥.”</p>
    <p>“𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑤𐑱 𐑛𐑳𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑯𐑑?” 𐑜𐑮𐑴𐑯𐑛 ·𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑨𐑛, 𐑜𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑐 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑚𐑫𐑒 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑚𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓.</p>
    <p>“𐑴! 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑞𐑰 𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑, ·𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑨𐑛,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 ·𐑐𐑰𐑤𐑧𐑜. “𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑧𐑯𐑦?” 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑥𐑰.</p>
    <p>“𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑛 𐑥𐑹 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑲 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑, ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑐𐑰𐑤𐑧𐑜.”</p>
    <p>“𐑢𐑧𐑤, 𐑚𐑮𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑞𐑧𐑯.”</p>
    <p>𐑯, 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑕𐑲𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑐𐑱𐑐𐑼𐑟, 𐑪𐑓 𐑲 𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑑; 𐑯𐑳𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑛𐑬𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑛𐑳𐑯 𐑩 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑥𐑹𐑯𐑦𐑙'𐑟 𐑢𐑻𐑒, 𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑲𐑛𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑞𐑨𐑑 ·𐑘𐑴𐑡𐑴 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑑 𐑒𐑨𐑮𐑦 ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜 𐑯 𐑥𐑰 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑱𐑐.</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑕𐑰𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑓𐑸, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑲 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑨𐑯 𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑥𐑰 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑵𐑥 𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑑 𐑕𐑱𐑤 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑳𐑯𐑕𐑰𐑯 𐑚𐑲 𐑥𐑰; 𐑞𐑴, 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑰𐑛, 𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑒𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑟, 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑚𐑰 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑰𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑬𐑑, 𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑰𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑻 𐑒𐑮𐑵 𐑪𐑯 𐑚𐑹𐑛, 𐑺 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑱𐑒𐑕 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑝𐑦𐑟𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑚𐑲 𐑼𐑲𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑛; 𐑓 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑟 𐑸 𐑕𐑴 𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑤𐑪𐑙𐑛, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑖𐑹 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑴𐑥 𐑕𐑴 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑰𐑛𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑮𐑰𐑓, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑓 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑩 𐑓𐑨𐑥𐑤𐑦, 𐑹 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑩𐑚𐑕𐑹𐑚𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑻𐑯𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑹𐑑, 𐑣𐑰 𐑛𐑳𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑦𐑯 𐑐𐑹𐑑, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑤𐑰𐑝𐑟 𐑣𐑻 𐑑 𐑞 𐑴𐑯𐑼𐑟 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑷𐑤 𐑦𐑟 𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑦 𐑓 𐑕𐑰. 𐑣𐑬𐑧𐑝𐑼, 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑷𐑤𐑢𐑱𐑟 𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑩 𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑒𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑘𐑹𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟. 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑨𐑒 𐑲 𐑩𐑒𐑪𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑐𐑰𐑤𐑧𐑜, 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑺 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛.</p>
    <p>“𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑛𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑬 𐑢𐑪𐑯𐑑 𐑝 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚? 𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑷𐑤 𐑮𐑲𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑳𐑓; 𐑞𐑬 𐑸𐑑 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑑.”</p>
    <p>“𐑘𐑧𐑕, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑲 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑑 𐑕𐑰 𐑣𐑦𐑥.”</p>
    <p>“𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑲 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑞𐑬 𐑢𐑦𐑤𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑. 𐑲 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑯𐑴 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑪𐑑'𐑕 𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑼 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑥; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑰𐑐𐑕 𐑒𐑤𐑴𐑕 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑞 𐑣𐑬𐑕; 𐑩 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑕𐑦𐑒, 𐑯 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑕𐑴. 𐑦𐑯 𐑓𐑨𐑒𐑑, 𐑣𐑰 𐑱𐑯𐑑 𐑕𐑦𐑒; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑯𐑴, 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑲𐑞𐑼. 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑣𐑬, 𐑘𐑳𐑙 𐑥𐑨𐑯, 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑷𐑤𐑢𐑱𐑟 𐑕𐑰 𐑥𐑰, 𐑕𐑴 𐑲 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑴𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑞𐑰. 𐑣𐑰'𐑟 𐑩 𐑒𐑢𐑽 𐑥𐑨𐑯, ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚—𐑕𐑴 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒—𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑢𐑳𐑯. 𐑴, 𐑞𐑬'𐑤𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑳𐑓; 𐑯𐑴 𐑓𐑽, 𐑯𐑴 𐑓𐑽. 𐑣𐑰'𐑟 𐑩 𐑜𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑛, 𐑳𐑯𐑜𐑪𐑛𐑤𐑦, 𐑜𐑪𐑛-𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑥𐑨𐑯, ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚; 𐑛𐑳𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑒 𐑥𐑳𐑗; 𐑚𐑳𐑑, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑛𐑳𐑟 𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑒, 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑿 𐑥𐑱 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑤𐑦𐑕𐑩𐑯. 𐑥𐑸𐑒 𐑘𐑰, 𐑚𐑰 𐑓𐑹𐑢𐑹𐑯𐑛; ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚'𐑟 𐑩𐑚𐑳𐑝 𐑞 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑯; ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚'𐑟 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑒𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑟, 𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑨𐑟 '𐑥𐑪𐑙 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑟; 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑿𐑟𐑛 𐑑 𐑛𐑰𐑐𐑼 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑝𐑟; 𐑓𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑲𐑼𐑦 𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑲𐑑𐑽, 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑼 𐑓𐑴𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟. 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕! 𐑲, 𐑞 𐑒𐑰𐑯𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑯 𐑞 𐑖𐑫𐑼𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑬𐑼 𐑲𐑤! 𐑴! 𐑣𐑰 𐑱𐑯𐑑 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑨𐑛; 𐑯𐑴, 𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑱𐑯𐑑 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑐𐑰𐑤𐑧𐑜; <i>𐑣𐑰'𐑟 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚</i>, 𐑚𐑶; 𐑯 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑝 𐑴𐑤𐑛, 𐑞𐑬 𐑯𐑴𐑩𐑕𐑑, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑒𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑒𐑦𐑙!”</p>
    <p>“𐑯 𐑩 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑝𐑲𐑤 𐑢𐑳𐑯. 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑒𐑑 𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑤𐑱𐑯, 𐑞 𐑛𐑪𐑜𐑟, 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑞𐑱 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑤𐑦𐑒 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑛?”</p>
    <p>“𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑞𐑼 𐑑 𐑥𐑰—𐑣𐑦𐑞𐑼, 𐑣𐑦𐑞𐑼,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 ·𐑐𐑰𐑤𐑧𐑜, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑕𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑲 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑥𐑰. “𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑘𐑰, 𐑤𐑨𐑛; 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑕𐑱 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑚𐑹𐑛 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛. 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑕𐑱 𐑦𐑑 𐑧𐑯𐑦𐑢𐑺. 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑯𐑱𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓. '𐑑𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑓𐑵𐑤𐑦𐑖, 𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑥 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑮𐑱𐑟𐑦, 𐑢𐑦𐑛𐑴𐑛 𐑥𐑳𐑞𐑼, 𐑣𐑵 𐑛𐑲𐑛 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑩 𐑑𐑢𐑧𐑤𐑝𐑥𐑳𐑯𐑔 𐑴𐑤𐑛. 𐑯 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑞 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑕𐑒𐑢𐑷 ·𐑑𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑜, 𐑨𐑑 ·𐑜𐑱𐑣𐑧𐑛, 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑯𐑱𐑥 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑣𐑬 𐑐𐑮𐑵𐑝 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑓𐑧𐑑𐑦𐑒. 𐑯, 𐑐𐑼𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑕, 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑓𐑵𐑤𐑟 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑣𐑻 𐑥𐑱 𐑑𐑧𐑤 𐑞𐑰 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑥. 𐑲 𐑢𐑦𐑖 𐑑 𐑢𐑹𐑯 𐑞𐑰. 𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑩 𐑤𐑲. 𐑲 𐑯𐑴 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑢𐑧𐑤; 𐑲'𐑝 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑨𐑟 𐑥𐑱𐑑 𐑘𐑽𐑟 𐑩𐑜𐑴; 𐑲 𐑯𐑴 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑟—𐑩 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑥𐑨𐑯—𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑩 𐑐𐑲𐑩𐑕, 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑥𐑨𐑯, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 ·𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑨𐑛, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 𐑕𐑢𐑺𐑦𐑙 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑥𐑨𐑯—𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑥𐑰—𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑞𐑺'𐑟 𐑩 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑛𐑰𐑤 𐑥𐑹 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑥. 𐑲, 𐑲, 𐑲 𐑯𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑡𐑪𐑤𐑦; 𐑯 𐑲 𐑯𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑨𐑕𐑦𐑡 𐑣𐑴𐑥, 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑓 𐑩 𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑤; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑖𐑸𐑐 𐑖𐑵𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑐𐑱𐑯𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑤𐑰𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑥𐑐 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑚𐑮𐑷𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑, 𐑨𐑟 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑕𐑰. 𐑲 𐑯𐑴, 𐑑𐑵, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑕 𐑣𐑰 𐑤𐑪𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑧𐑜 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡 𐑚𐑲 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑩𐑒𐑻𐑕𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑣𐑰'𐑟 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑩 𐑒𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑝 𐑥𐑵𐑛𐑦—𐑛𐑧𐑕𐑐𐑼𐑩𐑑 𐑥𐑵𐑛𐑦, 𐑯 𐑕𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑡 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑷𐑤 𐑐𐑭𐑕 𐑪𐑓. 𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕 𐑓 𐑷𐑤, 𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑥𐑰 𐑑𐑧𐑤 𐑞𐑰 𐑯 𐑩𐑖𐑫𐑼 𐑞𐑰, 𐑘𐑳𐑙 𐑥𐑨𐑯, 𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑚𐑧𐑑𐑼 𐑑 𐑕𐑱𐑤 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑥𐑵𐑛𐑦 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑩 𐑤𐑭𐑓𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑨𐑛 𐑢𐑳𐑯. 𐑕𐑴 𐑜𐑫𐑛-𐑚𐑲 𐑑 𐑞𐑰—𐑯 𐑮𐑪𐑙 𐑯𐑪𐑑 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚, 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑪𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑩 𐑢𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑛 𐑯𐑱𐑥. 𐑚𐑦𐑕𐑲𐑛𐑟, 𐑥𐑲 𐑚𐑶, 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑢𐑲𐑓—𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑟 𐑢𐑧𐑛𐑩𐑛—𐑩 𐑕𐑢𐑰𐑑, 𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑜𐑻𐑤. 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑝 𐑞𐑨𐑑; 𐑚𐑲 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑢𐑰𐑑 𐑜𐑻𐑤 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑗𐑲𐑤𐑛: 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑘𐑰 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑚𐑰 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑳𐑑𐑼, 𐑣𐑴𐑐𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑣𐑸𐑥 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚? 𐑯𐑴, 𐑯𐑴, 𐑥𐑲 𐑤𐑨𐑛; 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑯, 𐑚𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑦𐑓 𐑣𐑰 𐑚𐑰, ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑿𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑟!”</p>
    <p>𐑨𐑟 𐑲 𐑢𐑷𐑒𐑑 𐑩𐑢𐑱, 𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑓𐑫𐑤 𐑝 𐑔𐑷𐑑𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑯𐑩𐑕; 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑰𐑤𐑛 𐑑 𐑥𐑰 𐑝 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚, 𐑓𐑦𐑤𐑛 𐑥𐑰 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑲𐑤𐑛 𐑝𐑱𐑜𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑐𐑱𐑯𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥. 𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑣𐑬, 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑑𐑲𐑥, 𐑲 𐑓𐑧𐑤𐑑 𐑩 𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑔𐑦 𐑯 𐑩 𐑕𐑪𐑮𐑴 𐑓 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑓 𐑲 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑯𐑴 𐑢𐑪𐑑, 𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑧𐑕 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑩𐑤 𐑤𐑪𐑕 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑧𐑜. 𐑯 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑲 𐑷𐑤𐑕𐑴 𐑓𐑧𐑤𐑑 𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡 𐑷 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑥; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑷, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑲 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑚, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑷; 𐑲 𐑛𐑵 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑯𐑴 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑲 𐑓𐑧𐑤𐑑 𐑦𐑑; 𐑯 𐑦𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑲𐑯 𐑥𐑰 𐑑𐑩𐑢𐑹𐑛𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑥; 𐑞𐑴 𐑲 𐑓𐑧𐑤𐑑 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑕𐑴 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑻𐑓𐑦𐑒𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑴𐑯 𐑑 𐑥𐑰 𐑞𐑧𐑯. 𐑣𐑬𐑧𐑝𐑼, 𐑥𐑲 𐑔𐑷𐑑𐑕 𐑢𐑻 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑧𐑙𐑔 𐑒𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑛𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟, 𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑓 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑛𐑸𐑒 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑕𐑤𐑦𐑐𐑑 𐑥𐑲 𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛.</p>
  </body>
</html>
