<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Chapter 7</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="chapter-7" xml:lang="en-US">
      <h2 id="chapterheader-7">·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 7. 𐑞 ·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑩𐑤.</h2>
    </div>
    <p>𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑕𐑱𐑥 ·𐑯𐑿 ·𐑚𐑧𐑛𐑓𐑼𐑛 𐑞𐑺 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑩 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑥𐑩𐑯'𐑟 ·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑩𐑤, 𐑯 𐑓𐑿 𐑸 𐑞 𐑥𐑵𐑛𐑦 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑖𐑹𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑓 𐑞 ·𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑾𐑯 ·𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑹 ·𐑐𐑩𐑕𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒, 𐑣𐑵 𐑓𐑱𐑤 𐑑 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑩 𐑕𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑱 𐑝𐑦𐑟𐑦𐑑 𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑐𐑪𐑑. 𐑲 𐑨𐑥 𐑖𐑫𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑲 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑.</p>
    <p>𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑥𐑲 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑹𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑴𐑤, 𐑲 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯 𐑕𐑨𐑤𐑦𐑛 𐑬𐑑 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑤 𐑧𐑮𐑩𐑯𐑛. 𐑞 𐑕𐑒𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑗𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑒𐑤𐑽, 𐑕𐑳𐑯𐑦 𐑒𐑴𐑤𐑛, 𐑑 𐑛𐑮𐑲𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑑 𐑯 𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑑. 𐑮𐑨𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑲𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑲 𐑖𐑨𐑜𐑦 𐑡𐑨𐑒𐑩𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑒𐑤𐑪𐑔 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑺𐑕𐑒𐑦𐑯, 𐑲 𐑓𐑷𐑑 𐑥𐑲 𐑢𐑱 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚𐑼𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑥. 𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑦𐑙, 𐑲 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑩 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤 𐑕𐑒𐑨𐑑𐑼𐑛 𐑒𐑪𐑙𐑜𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼𐑟, 𐑯 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼𐑟' 𐑢𐑲𐑝𐑟 𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑛𐑴𐑟. 𐑩 𐑥𐑳𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑕𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑛, 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑮𐑴𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑖𐑮𐑰𐑒𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑥. 𐑰𐑗 𐑕𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑢𐑻𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑼 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑐𐑻𐑐𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼, 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑓 𐑰𐑗 𐑕𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑓 𐑢𐑻 𐑦𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑤𐑼 𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑿𐑯𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤. 𐑞 𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑤𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑼𐑲𐑝𐑛; 𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑕𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑝 𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑛𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑲𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑥𐑸𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑑𐑨𐑚𐑤𐑩𐑑𐑕, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒 𐑚𐑹𐑛𐑼𐑟, 𐑥𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑢𐑷𐑤 𐑪𐑯 𐑲𐑞𐑼 𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑞 𐑐𐑫𐑤𐑐𐑦𐑑. 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑝 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑮𐑨𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞 𐑓𐑪𐑤𐑴𐑦𐑙, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑲 𐑛𐑵 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑒𐑢𐑴𐑑:—</p>
    <p>·𐑕𐑱𐑒𐑮𐑩𐑛 𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑥𐑧𐑥𐑼𐑦 𐑝 ·𐑡𐑪𐑯 ·𐑑𐑷𐑤𐑚𐑩𐑑, 𐑣𐑵, 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑱𐑡 𐑝 𐑱𐑑𐑰𐑯, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑤𐑪𐑕𐑑 𐑴𐑝𐑼𐑚𐑹𐑛, ·𐑯𐑽 𐑞 ·𐑲𐑤 𐑝 ·𐑛𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑪𐑓 ·𐑐𐑨𐑑𐑩𐑜𐑴𐑯𐑾, <i>𐑯𐑴𐑝𐑧𐑥𐑚𐑼</i> 1<i>𐑕𐑑</i>, 1836. 𐑞𐑦𐑕 ·𐑑𐑨𐑚𐑤𐑩𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 ·𐑥𐑧𐑥𐑼𐑦 𐑚𐑲 𐑣𐑦𐑟 ·𐑕𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑼.</p>
    <p>·𐑕𐑱𐑒𐑮𐑩𐑛 𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑥𐑧𐑥𐑼𐑦 𐑝 ·𐑮𐑪𐑚𐑼𐑑 ·𐑤𐑪𐑙, ·𐑢𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑕 ·𐑧𐑤𐑼𐑦, ·𐑯𐑱𐑔𐑩𐑯 ·𐑒𐑴𐑤𐑥𐑩𐑯, ·𐑢𐑷𐑤𐑑𐑼 ·𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑦, ·𐑕𐑧𐑔 ·𐑥𐑱𐑕𐑦, 𐑯 ·𐑕𐑨𐑥𐑿𐑩𐑤 ·𐑜𐑤𐑰𐑜, ·𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕' 𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑖𐑦𐑐 ·𐑦𐑤𐑲𐑟𐑩 𐑣𐑵 𐑢𐑻 𐑑𐑴𐑛 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑕𐑲𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑩 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑪𐑓-𐑖𐑹 ·𐑜𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑩𐑕𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒, <i>𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑧𐑥𐑚𐑼</i> 31<i>𐑕𐑑</i>, 1839. 𐑞𐑦𐑕 ·𐑥𐑸𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑽 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑞𐑺 𐑕𐑼𐑝𐑲𐑝𐑦𐑙 ·𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑥𐑱𐑑𐑕.</p>
    <p>·𐑕𐑱𐑒𐑮𐑩𐑛 𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑥𐑧𐑥𐑼𐑦 𐑝 𐑞 𐑤𐑱𐑑 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑦𐑟𐑰𐑒𐑾𐑤 ·𐑣𐑸𐑛𐑦, 𐑣𐑵 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑬𐑟 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑩 ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑝 ·𐑡𐑩𐑐𐑨𐑯, <i>𐑷𐑜𐑩𐑕𐑑</i> 3<i>d</i>, 1833. 𐑞𐑦𐑕 ·𐑑𐑨𐑚𐑤𐑩𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 ·𐑥𐑧𐑥𐑼𐑦 𐑚𐑲 𐑣𐑦𐑟 ·𐑢𐑦𐑛𐑴.</p>
    <p>𐑖𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑓 𐑞 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑥𐑲 𐑲𐑕-𐑜𐑤𐑱𐑟𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑑 𐑯 𐑡𐑨𐑒𐑩𐑑, 𐑲 𐑕𐑰𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑥𐑲𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑯𐑽 𐑞 𐑛𐑹, 𐑯 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑲𐑛𐑢𐑱𐑟 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑼𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑟𐑛 𐑑 𐑕𐑰 ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜 𐑯𐑽 𐑥𐑰. 𐑩𐑓𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑧𐑥𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑰𐑯, 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑜𐑱𐑟 𐑝 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑮𐑧𐑡𐑵𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑦𐑪𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑯𐑕. 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑕𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑡 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑻𐑕𐑩𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑣𐑵 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑑 𐑯𐑴𐑑𐑦𐑕 𐑥𐑲 𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑯𐑕; 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑪𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑣𐑵 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑮𐑰𐑛, 𐑯, 𐑞𐑺𐑓𐑹, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑮𐑰𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑓𐑮𐑦𐑡𐑦𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑷𐑤. 𐑢𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑝 𐑞 𐑮𐑧𐑤𐑩𐑑𐑦𐑝𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑣𐑵𐑟 𐑯𐑱𐑥𐑟 𐑩𐑐𐑽𐑛 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑻 𐑯𐑬 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑞 𐑒𐑪𐑙𐑜𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑲 𐑯𐑿 𐑯𐑪𐑑; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑴 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑸 𐑞 𐑳𐑯𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑹𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑨𐑒𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑦, 𐑯 𐑕𐑴 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑕𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑢𐑺 𐑞 𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑦𐑓 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑞 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑐𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑝 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑳𐑯𐑕𐑰𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑓, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑲 𐑓𐑰𐑤 𐑖𐑫𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑽 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑥𐑰 𐑢𐑻 𐑩𐑕𐑧𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑞𐑴𐑟, 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑵𐑟 𐑳𐑯𐑣𐑰𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑸𐑑𐑕 𐑞 𐑕𐑲𐑑 𐑝 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑚𐑤𐑰𐑒 𐑑𐑨𐑚𐑤𐑩𐑑𐑕 𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑔𐑧𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑷𐑟𐑛 𐑞 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑢𐑵𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑑 𐑚𐑤𐑰𐑛 𐑩𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑖.</p>
    <p>𐑴! 𐑘𐑰 𐑣𐑵𐑟 𐑛𐑧𐑛 𐑤𐑲 𐑚𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑛 𐑚𐑦𐑯𐑰𐑔 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑯 𐑜𐑮𐑭𐑕; 𐑣𐑵 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑓𐑤𐑬𐑼𐑟 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑕𐑱—𐑣𐑽, <i>𐑣𐑽</i> 𐑤𐑲𐑟 𐑥𐑲 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑳𐑝𐑩𐑛; 𐑘𐑰 𐑯𐑴 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑚𐑮𐑵𐑛𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑚𐑫𐑟𐑩𐑥𐑟 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞𐑰𐑟. 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑼 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒-𐑚𐑹𐑛𐑼𐑛 𐑥𐑸𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑒𐑳𐑝𐑼 𐑯𐑴 𐑨𐑖𐑩𐑟! 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑺 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑦𐑥𐑵𐑝𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟! 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑛𐑧𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑝𐑶𐑛𐑟 𐑯 𐑳𐑯𐑚𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑦𐑛𐑨𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥 𐑑 𐑯𐑷 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑷𐑤 ·𐑓𐑱𐑔, 𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑓𐑿𐑟 𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑼𐑧𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑣𐑵 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑖𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑 𐑩 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑝. 𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑑𐑨𐑚𐑤𐑩𐑑𐑕 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑱𐑝 𐑝 ·𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑓𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑩 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑽.</p>
    <p>𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑗𐑼𐑟, 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑛 𐑝 𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑒𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑸 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑵𐑛𐑩𐑛; 𐑢𐑲 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑩 𐑿𐑯𐑦𐑝𐑻𐑕𐑩𐑤 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑝𐑻𐑚 𐑕𐑧𐑟 𐑝 𐑞𐑧𐑥, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑱 𐑑𐑧𐑤 𐑯𐑴 𐑑𐑱𐑤𐑟, 𐑞𐑴 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑱𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑹 𐑕𐑰𐑒𐑮𐑩𐑑𐑕 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑜𐑫𐑛𐑢𐑦𐑯 ·𐑕𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟; 𐑣𐑬 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑱𐑥 𐑣𐑵 𐑘𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑛𐑱 𐑛𐑦𐑐𐑸𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑓 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛, 𐑢𐑰 𐑐𐑮𐑰𐑓𐑦𐑒𐑕 𐑕𐑴 𐑕𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑤 𐑩 𐑢𐑻𐑛, 𐑯 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑛𐑵 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑞𐑳𐑕 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑦𐑓 𐑣𐑰 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑥𐑚𐑸𐑒𐑕 𐑓 𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑴𐑑𐑩𐑕𐑑 ·𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑟 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑻𐑔; 𐑢𐑲 𐑞 ·𐑤𐑲𐑓 ·𐑦𐑯𐑖𐑫𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑕 ·𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑱 𐑛𐑧𐑔-𐑓𐑹𐑓𐑦𐑗𐑼𐑟 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑦𐑥𐑹𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑟; 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑩𐑤, 𐑳𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑻𐑦𐑙 𐑐𐑼𐑨𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑦𐑕, 𐑯 𐑛𐑧𐑛𐑤𐑦, 𐑣𐑴𐑐𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑑𐑮𐑭𐑯𐑕, 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑟 𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑰𐑒 ·𐑨𐑛𐑩𐑥 𐑣𐑵 𐑛𐑲𐑛 𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑦 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑗𐑼𐑦𐑟 𐑩𐑜𐑴; 𐑣𐑬 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑰 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑮𐑦𐑓𐑿𐑟 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑓𐑼𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑓 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑣𐑵 𐑢𐑰 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑞𐑩𐑤𐑧𐑕 𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑑𐑱𐑯 𐑸 𐑛𐑢𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑳𐑯𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑚𐑤𐑦𐑕; 𐑢𐑲 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑴 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑝 𐑑 𐑣𐑳𐑖 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑛; 𐑢𐑺𐑓𐑹 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑮𐑵𐑥𐑼 𐑝 𐑩 𐑯𐑪𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑑𐑵𐑥 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑑𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑓𐑲 𐑩 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑦. 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑸 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑥𐑰𐑯𐑦𐑙𐑟.</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑳𐑑 ·𐑓𐑱𐑔, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑡𐑨𐑒𐑩𐑤, 𐑓𐑰𐑛𐑟 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑞 𐑑𐑵𐑥𐑟, 𐑯 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑛𐑧𐑛 𐑛𐑬𐑑𐑕 𐑖𐑰 𐑜𐑨𐑞𐑼𐑟 𐑣𐑻 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑝𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑣𐑴𐑐.</p>
    <p>𐑦𐑑 𐑯𐑰𐑛𐑟 𐑕𐑒𐑺𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑑𐑴𐑤𐑛, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑓𐑰𐑤𐑦𐑙𐑟, 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑰𐑝 𐑝 𐑩 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑 𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡, 𐑲 𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑸𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑥𐑸𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑑𐑨𐑚𐑤𐑩𐑑𐑕, 𐑯 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑥𐑻𐑒𐑦 𐑤𐑲𐑑 𐑝 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑛𐑸𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑛, 𐑛𐑴𐑤𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑛𐑱 𐑮𐑧𐑛 𐑞 𐑓𐑱𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑣𐑵 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑜𐑪𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑥𐑰. 𐑘𐑧𐑕, ·𐑦𐑖𐑥𐑱𐑩𐑤, 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑓𐑱𐑑 𐑥𐑱 𐑚𐑰 𐑞𐑲𐑯. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑣𐑬 𐑲 𐑜𐑮𐑵 𐑥𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯. 𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑿𐑕𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑑 𐑦𐑥𐑚𐑸𐑒, 𐑓𐑲𐑯 𐑗𐑭𐑯𐑕 𐑓 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑥𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑟—𐑲, 𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑝 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑥𐑰 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑥𐑹𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑚𐑲 𐑚𐑮𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑑. 𐑘𐑧𐑕, 𐑞𐑺 𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑧𐑔 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑚𐑦𐑟𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙—𐑩 𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑗𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑒 𐑒𐑱𐑪𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑚𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑩 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 ·𐑦𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑦. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑯? 𐑥𐑦𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑕 𐑢𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑣𐑿𐑡𐑤𐑦 𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑼 𐑝 ·𐑤𐑲𐑓 𐑯 ·𐑛𐑧𐑔. 𐑥𐑦𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑕 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑞𐑱 𐑒𐑷𐑤 𐑥𐑲 𐑖𐑨𐑛𐑴 𐑣𐑽 𐑪𐑯 𐑻𐑔 𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑲 𐑑𐑮𐑵 𐑕𐑳𐑚𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕. 𐑥𐑦𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑕 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑑 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑮𐑦𐑗𐑵𐑩𐑤, 𐑢𐑰 𐑸 𐑑𐑵 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑶𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑩𐑚𐑟𐑻𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑯 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑞 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼, 𐑯 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑔𐑦𐑒 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼 𐑞 𐑔𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑺. 𐑥𐑦𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑕 𐑥𐑲 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦 𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑤𐑰𐑟 𐑝 𐑥𐑲 𐑚𐑧𐑑𐑼 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙. 𐑦𐑯 𐑓𐑨𐑒𐑑 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑥𐑲 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦 𐑣𐑵 𐑢𐑦𐑤, 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑦𐑑 𐑲 𐑕𐑱, 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑥𐑰. 𐑯 𐑞𐑺𐑓𐑹 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑗𐑽𐑟 𐑓 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑; 𐑯 𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑝 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑝 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞𐑱 𐑢𐑦𐑤, 𐑓 𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑝 𐑥𐑲 𐑕𐑴𐑤, ·𐑡𐑴𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑪𐑑.</p>
  </body>
</html>
