<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Chapter 3</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="chapter-3" xml:lang="en-US">
      <h2 id="chapterheader-3">·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 3. 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑐𐑬𐑑𐑼-·𐑦𐑯.</h2>
    </div>
    <p>𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑜𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤-𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 ·𐑕𐑐𐑬𐑑𐑼-·𐑦𐑯, 𐑿 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑘𐑹𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑢𐑲𐑛, 𐑤𐑴, 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑜𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑦 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑴𐑤𐑛-𐑓𐑨𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑢𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑒𐑪𐑑𐑕, 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑫𐑤𐑢𐑼𐑒𐑕 𐑝 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑧𐑥𐑛 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑒𐑮𐑭𐑓𐑑. 𐑪𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑣𐑳𐑙 𐑩 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑤𐑸𐑡 𐑶𐑤𐑐𐑱𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑴 𐑔𐑳𐑮𐑴𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑦𐑕𐑥𐑴𐑒𐑑, 𐑯 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑢𐑱 𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑱𐑕𐑑, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑳𐑯𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑮𐑪𐑕𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑕 𐑚𐑲 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑿 𐑝𐑿𐑛 𐑦𐑑, 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑲 𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑛𐑦 𐑯 𐑩 𐑕𐑽𐑰𐑟 𐑝 𐑕𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑝𐑦𐑟𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑑 𐑦𐑑, 𐑯 𐑒𐑺𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑼𐑦 𐑝 𐑞 𐑯𐑱𐑚𐑼𐑟, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑿 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑢𐑱 𐑼𐑲𐑝 𐑨𐑑 𐑩𐑯 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑐𐑻𐑐𐑩𐑕. 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑳𐑯𐑩𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑥𐑨𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑝 𐑖𐑱𐑛𐑟 𐑯 𐑖𐑨𐑛𐑴𐑟, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑿 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑔𐑷𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑨𐑥𐑚𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑕 𐑘𐑳𐑙 𐑸𐑑𐑦𐑕𐑑, 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑯𐑿 ·𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑜𐑟, 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑛 𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑱𐑑 𐑒𐑱𐑪𐑕 𐑚𐑦𐑢𐑦𐑗𐑑. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑯 𐑻𐑯𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑯 𐑪𐑓𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑰𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑐𐑪𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑦𐑙𐑟, 𐑯 𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑲 𐑔𐑮𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑴𐑐𐑩𐑯 𐑞 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑴 𐑑𐑩𐑢𐑹𐑛𐑟 𐑞 𐑚𐑨𐑒 𐑝 𐑞 𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑦, 𐑿 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑑 𐑞 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑵𐑠𐑩𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩𐑯 𐑲𐑛𐑾, 𐑣𐑬𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑢𐑲𐑤𐑛, 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑷𐑤𐑑𐑩𐑜𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑳𐑯𐑢𐑪𐑮𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛.</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑐𐑳𐑟𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑯 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑿 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑤𐑪𐑙, 𐑤𐑦𐑥𐑚𐑼, 𐑐𐑹𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑕, 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒 𐑥𐑨𐑕 𐑝 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑪𐑝𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑼 𐑝 𐑞 𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑗𐑼 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑚𐑤𐑵, 𐑛𐑦𐑥, 𐑐𐑻𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑼 𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑟 𐑓𐑤𐑴𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑯𐑱𐑥𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑘𐑰𐑕𐑑. 𐑩 𐑚𐑪𐑜𐑦, 𐑕𐑪𐑜𐑦, 𐑕𐑒𐑦𐑗𐑦 𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑗𐑼 𐑑𐑮𐑵𐑤𐑦, 𐑦𐑯𐑳𐑓 𐑑 𐑛𐑮𐑲𐑝 𐑩 𐑯𐑻𐑝𐑩𐑕 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛. 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞𐑺 𐑩 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑧𐑓𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑑, 𐑣𐑭𐑓-𐑩𐑑𐑱𐑯𐑛, 𐑳𐑯𐑦𐑥𐑨𐑡𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑓𐑺𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑮𐑴𐑟 𐑿 𐑑 𐑦𐑑, 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑿 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑺𐑦𐑤𐑦 𐑑𐑫𐑒 𐑩𐑯 𐑴𐑔 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑘𐑹𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑑 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑬𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑸𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑐𐑱𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑. 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑯 𐑩𐑯𐑪𐑯 𐑩 𐑚𐑮𐑲𐑑, 𐑚𐑳𐑑, 𐑩𐑤𐑨𐑕, 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑧𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑝 𐑲𐑛𐑾 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑛𐑸𐑑 𐑿 𐑔𐑮𐑵.—𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑞 ·𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒 ·𐑕𐑰 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑯𐑲𐑑 𐑜𐑱𐑤.—𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑞 𐑳𐑯𐑯𐑨𐑗𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑚𐑨𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑓𐑹 𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑥𐑩𐑤 𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕.—𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑩 𐑚𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑰𐑔.—𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑩 ·𐑣𐑲𐑐𐑼𐑚𐑹𐑾𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼 𐑕𐑰𐑯.—𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑞 𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙-𐑳𐑐 𐑝 𐑞 𐑲𐑕𐑚𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑰𐑥 𐑝 ·𐑑𐑲𐑥. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑓𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑟 𐑘𐑰𐑤𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑐𐑹𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑕 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑗𐑼'𐑟 𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑕𐑑. <i>𐑞𐑨𐑑</i> 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑬𐑑, 𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑻 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑪𐑐; 𐑛𐑳𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑚𐑺 𐑩 𐑓𐑱𐑯𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑧𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑑 𐑩 𐑡𐑲𐑜𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑓𐑦𐑖? 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓?</p>
    <p>𐑦𐑯 𐑓𐑨𐑒𐑑, 𐑞 𐑸𐑑𐑦𐑕𐑑'𐑕 𐑛𐑦𐑟𐑲𐑯 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑞𐑦𐑕: 𐑩 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑔𐑽𐑦 𐑝 𐑥𐑲 𐑴𐑯, 𐑐𐑸𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑱𐑕𐑑 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑨𐑜𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑩𐑐𐑦𐑯𐑘𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑱𐑡𐑛 𐑐𐑻𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑵𐑥 𐑲 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑝𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑚𐑡𐑧𐑒𐑑. 𐑞 𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑗𐑼 𐑮𐑧𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑩 ·𐑒𐑱𐑐-·𐑣𐑹𐑯𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑣𐑳𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑱𐑯; 𐑞 𐑣𐑭𐑓-𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑛 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑢𐑧𐑤𐑑𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑕 𐑩𐑤𐑴𐑯 𐑝𐑦𐑟𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤; 𐑯 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑨𐑕𐑐𐑼𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑐𐑻𐑐𐑩𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑤𐑰𐑯 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑭𐑓𐑑, 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑹𐑥𐑩𐑕 𐑨𐑒𐑑 𐑝 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑-𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑟.</p>
    <p>𐑞 𐑪𐑐𐑩𐑟𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑷𐑤 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑦 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑣𐑳𐑙 𐑷𐑤 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑣𐑰𐑞𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑖 𐑼𐑱 𐑝 𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑕 𐑒𐑤𐑳𐑚𐑟 𐑯 𐑕𐑐𐑽𐑟. 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑢𐑻 𐑔𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑧𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑜𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑑𐑰𐑔 𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑧𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑲𐑝𐑼𐑦 𐑕𐑷𐑟; 𐑳𐑞𐑼𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑑𐑳𐑓𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑯𐑪𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑣𐑿𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑺; 𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤-𐑖𐑱𐑐𐑑, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑝𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑢𐑰𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞 𐑕𐑧𐑜𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑯𐑿-𐑥𐑴𐑯 𐑜𐑮𐑭𐑕 𐑚𐑲 𐑩 𐑤𐑪𐑙-𐑸𐑥𐑛 𐑥𐑴𐑼. 𐑿 𐑖𐑳𐑛𐑼𐑛 𐑨𐑟 𐑿 𐑜𐑱𐑟𐑛, 𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑛 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑕 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑯 𐑕𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑡 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑜𐑪𐑯 𐑩 𐑛𐑧𐑔-𐑣𐑸𐑝𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑣𐑨𐑒𐑦𐑙, 𐑣𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑓𐑲𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑦𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑. 𐑥𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑮𐑳𐑕𐑑𐑦 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑯 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑟 𐑷𐑤 𐑚𐑮𐑴𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑛. 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑢𐑻 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑦𐑛 𐑢𐑧𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑟. 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕, 𐑯𐑬 𐑢𐑲𐑤𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑧𐑤𐑚𐑴𐑛, 𐑓𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑦 𐑘𐑽𐑟 𐑩𐑜𐑴 𐑛𐑦𐑛 ·𐑯𐑱𐑔𐑩𐑯 ·𐑕𐑢𐑱𐑯 𐑒𐑦𐑤 𐑓𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑰𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑢𐑰𐑯 𐑩 𐑕𐑳𐑯𐑮𐑲𐑟 𐑯 𐑩 𐑕𐑳𐑯𐑕𐑧𐑑. 𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯—𐑕𐑴 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑒𐑹𐑒𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑵 𐑯𐑬—𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑓𐑤𐑳𐑙 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑡𐑭𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑕𐑰𐑟, 𐑯 𐑮𐑳𐑯 𐑩𐑢𐑱 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑚𐑲 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑘𐑽𐑟 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼𐑢𐑼𐑛𐑟 𐑕𐑤𐑱𐑯 𐑪𐑓 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑱𐑐 𐑝 ·𐑚𐑤𐑭𐑙𐑒𐑴. 𐑞 𐑼𐑦𐑡𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑲𐑼𐑯 𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑛 𐑯𐑲 𐑞 𐑑𐑱𐑤, 𐑯, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑯𐑰𐑛𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑪𐑡𐑼𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦 𐑝 𐑩 𐑥𐑨𐑯, 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑓𐑫𐑤 𐑓𐑹𐑑𐑦 𐑓𐑰𐑑, 𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑥𐑚𐑧𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑣𐑳𐑥𐑐.</p>
    <p>𐑒𐑮𐑪𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑛𐑳𐑕𐑒𐑦 𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑦, 𐑯 𐑪𐑯 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑘𐑪𐑯 𐑤𐑴-𐑸𐑗𐑑 𐑢𐑱—𐑒𐑳𐑑 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑩 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑤 𐑗𐑦𐑥𐑯𐑦 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑓𐑲𐑼𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑷𐑤 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛—𐑿 𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑼 𐑞 𐑐𐑳𐑚𐑤𐑦𐑒 𐑮𐑵𐑥. 𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑛𐑳𐑕𐑒𐑽 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕 𐑦𐑟 𐑞𐑦𐑕, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑤𐑴 𐑐𐑪𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑩𐑕 𐑚𐑰𐑥𐑟 𐑩𐑚𐑳𐑝, 𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑮𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑐𐑤𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑕 𐑚𐑦𐑯𐑰𐑔, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑿 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑓𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑦 𐑿 𐑑𐑮𐑪𐑛 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑒𐑮𐑭𐑓𐑑'𐑕 𐑒𐑪𐑒𐑐𐑦𐑑𐑕, 𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑝 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑣𐑬𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑯𐑲𐑑, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑒𐑹𐑯𐑼-𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑼𐑛 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑸𐑒 𐑮𐑪𐑒𐑑 𐑕𐑴 𐑓𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑾𐑕𐑤𐑦. 𐑪𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑕𐑑𐑫𐑛 𐑩 𐑤𐑪𐑙, 𐑤𐑴, 𐑖𐑧𐑤𐑓-𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑑𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑳𐑝𐑼𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑨𐑒𐑑 𐑜𐑤𐑭𐑕 𐑒𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑟, 𐑓𐑦𐑤𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑛𐑳𐑕𐑑𐑦 𐑮𐑺𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑟 𐑜𐑨𐑞𐑼𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑲𐑛 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛'𐑟 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑴𐑑𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑯𐑫𐑒𐑕. 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑡𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑞𐑼 𐑨𐑙𐑜𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑞 𐑮𐑵𐑥 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑩 𐑛𐑸𐑒-𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑛𐑧𐑯—𐑞 𐑚𐑸—𐑩 𐑮𐑵𐑛 𐑩𐑑𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑩 𐑮𐑲𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤'𐑟 𐑣𐑧𐑛. 𐑚𐑰 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑬 𐑦𐑑 𐑥𐑱, 𐑞𐑺 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑞 𐑝𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑸𐑗𐑑 𐑚𐑴𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤'𐑟 𐑡𐑷, 𐑕𐑴 𐑢𐑲𐑛, 𐑩 𐑒𐑴𐑗 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑛𐑮𐑲𐑝 𐑚𐑦𐑯𐑰𐑔 𐑦𐑑. 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑦𐑯 𐑸 𐑖𐑨𐑚𐑦 𐑖𐑧𐑤𐑝𐑟, 𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑛 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑟, 𐑚𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑟, 𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒𐑕; 𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑡𐑷𐑟 𐑝 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑓𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩𐑯𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑒𐑻𐑕𐑑 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩 (𐑚𐑲 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑯𐑱𐑥 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑰𐑛 𐑞𐑱 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥), 𐑚𐑳𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑼𐑛 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑥𐑨𐑯, 𐑣𐑵, 𐑓 𐑞𐑺 𐑥𐑳𐑯𐑦, 𐑛𐑽𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑟 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼𐑟 𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑽𐑾𐑥𐑟 𐑯 𐑛𐑧𐑔.</p>
    <p>𐑩𐑚𐑪𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑸 𐑞 𐑑𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑼𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑣𐑰 𐑐𐑹𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑶𐑟𐑩𐑯. 𐑞𐑴 𐑑𐑮𐑵 𐑕𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑—𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑦𐑯, 𐑞 𐑝𐑦𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑯 𐑜𐑪𐑜𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑜𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑰𐑑𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑑𐑱𐑐𐑼𐑛 𐑛𐑬𐑯𐑢𐑼𐑛𐑟 𐑑 𐑩 𐑗𐑰𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑥. 𐑐𐑨𐑮𐑩𐑤𐑧𐑤 𐑥𐑼𐑦𐑛𐑾𐑯𐑟 𐑮𐑵𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑜𐑤𐑭𐑕, 𐑕𐑼𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑓𐑫𐑑𐑐𐑨𐑛𐑟' 𐑜𐑪𐑚𐑤𐑩𐑑𐑕. 𐑓𐑦𐑤 𐑑 <i>𐑞𐑦𐑕</i> 𐑥𐑸𐑒, 𐑯 𐑘𐑹 𐑗𐑸𐑡 𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑦; 𐑑 <i>𐑞𐑦𐑕</i> 𐑩 𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑥𐑹; 𐑯 𐑕𐑴 𐑪𐑯 𐑑 𐑞 𐑓𐑫𐑤 𐑜𐑤𐑭𐑕—𐑞 ·𐑒𐑱𐑐 ·𐑣𐑹𐑯 𐑥𐑧𐑠𐑼, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑿 𐑥𐑱 𐑜𐑳𐑤𐑐 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑓 𐑩 𐑖𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑙.</p>
    <p>𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕 𐑲 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑩 𐑯𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑼 𐑝 𐑘𐑳𐑙 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑜𐑨𐑞𐑼𐑛 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑩 𐑑𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤, 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑨𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑲 𐑩 𐑛𐑦𐑥 𐑤𐑲𐑑 𐑛𐑲𐑝𐑼𐑟 𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑝 <i>𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑟𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑼</i>. 𐑲 𐑕𐑷𐑑 𐑞 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑹𐑛, 𐑯 𐑑𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑲 𐑛𐑦𐑟𐑲𐑼𐑛 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑩𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑛𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑮𐑵𐑥, 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑰𐑝𐑛 𐑓 𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑬𐑕 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑓𐑫𐑤—𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑩 𐑚𐑧𐑛 𐑳𐑯𐑪𐑒𐑿𐑐𐑲𐑛. “𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩𐑝𐑭𐑕𐑑,” 𐑣𐑰 𐑨𐑛𐑩𐑛, 𐑑𐑨𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑛, “𐑿 𐑣𐑱𐑯𐑑 𐑯𐑴 𐑩𐑚𐑡𐑧𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑑 𐑖𐑺𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽'𐑟 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑩𐑑, 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑘𐑰? 𐑲 𐑕'𐑐𐑴𐑕 𐑿 𐑸 𐑜𐑴𐑦𐑯' 𐑩-𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑯', 𐑕𐑴 𐑿'𐑛 𐑚𐑧𐑑𐑼 𐑜𐑧𐑑 𐑿𐑟𐑛 𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑔𐑦𐑙.”</p>
    <p>𐑲 𐑑𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑲 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑤𐑲𐑒𐑑 𐑑 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐 𐑑𐑵 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑚𐑧𐑛; 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑓 𐑲 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑛𐑵 𐑕𐑴, 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑛𐑦𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑵 𐑞 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑚𐑰, 𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑓 𐑣𐑰 (𐑞 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑹𐑛) 𐑮𐑾𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑯𐑴 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕 𐑓 𐑥𐑰, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑲𐑛𐑩𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑚𐑡𐑧𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤, 𐑢𐑲 𐑮𐑭𐑞𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑓𐑻𐑞𐑼 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡 𐑑𐑬𐑯 𐑪𐑯 𐑕𐑴 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑼 𐑩 𐑯𐑲𐑑, 𐑲 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑐𐑫𐑑 𐑳𐑐 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑣𐑭𐑓 𐑝 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑛𐑰𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑯'𐑟 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑩𐑑.</p>
    <p>“𐑲 𐑔𐑷𐑑 𐑕𐑴. 𐑷𐑤 𐑮𐑲𐑑; 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑩 𐑕𐑰𐑑. 𐑕𐑳𐑐𐑼?—𐑿 𐑢𐑪𐑯𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑐𐑼? 𐑕𐑳𐑐𐑼'𐑤 𐑚𐑰 𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑤𐑦.”</p>
    <p>𐑲 𐑕𐑨𐑑 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑪𐑯 𐑩𐑯 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑢𐑫𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑩𐑤, 𐑒𐑸𐑝𐑛 𐑷𐑤 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑚𐑧𐑯𐑗 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑚𐑨𐑑𐑼𐑦. 𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑩 𐑮𐑵𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑑𐑸 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑓𐑻𐑞𐑼 𐑩𐑛𐑹𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑡𐑨𐑒-𐑯𐑲𐑓, 𐑕𐑑𐑵𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑻𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑢𐑱 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑐𐑱𐑕 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑢𐑰𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑧𐑜𐑟. 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑩 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑓𐑫𐑤 𐑕𐑱𐑤, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑛𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑢𐑱, 𐑲 𐑔𐑷𐑑.</p>
    <p>𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑓𐑹 𐑹 𐑓𐑲𐑝 𐑝 𐑳𐑕 𐑢𐑻 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑬𐑼 𐑥𐑰𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑩𐑯 𐑩𐑡𐑶𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑮𐑵𐑥. 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑒𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑨𐑟 ·𐑲𐑕𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛—𐑯𐑴 𐑓𐑲𐑼 𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤—𐑞 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑹𐑛 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑫𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑩𐑓𐑹𐑛 𐑦𐑑. 𐑯𐑳𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑑𐑵 𐑛𐑦𐑟𐑥𐑩𐑤 𐑑𐑨𐑤𐑴 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑤𐑟, 𐑰𐑗 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑢𐑲𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑖𐑰𐑑. 𐑢𐑰 𐑢𐑻 𐑓𐑱𐑯 𐑑 𐑚𐑳𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑳𐑐 𐑬𐑼 𐑥𐑳𐑙𐑒𐑦 𐑡𐑨𐑒𐑩𐑑𐑕, 𐑯 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑑 𐑬𐑼 𐑤𐑦𐑐𐑕 𐑒𐑳𐑐𐑕 𐑝 𐑕𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑑𐑰 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑬𐑼 𐑣𐑭𐑓 𐑓𐑮𐑴𐑟𐑩𐑯 𐑓𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑼𐑟. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑓𐑺 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑲𐑯𐑛—𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑥𐑰𐑑 𐑯 𐑐𐑩𐑑𐑱𐑑𐑴𐑟, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑛𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑦𐑙𐑟; 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑣𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯𐑟! 𐑛𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑓 𐑕𐑳𐑐𐑼! 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑘𐑳𐑙 𐑓𐑧𐑤𐑴 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑯 𐑚𐑪𐑒𐑕 𐑒𐑴𐑑, 𐑩𐑛𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑑 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑛𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑛𐑲𐑼𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑼.</p>
    <p>“𐑥𐑲 𐑚𐑶,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑞 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑹𐑛, “𐑿'𐑤 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑞 𐑯𐑲𐑑𐑥𐑺 𐑑 𐑩 𐑛𐑧𐑛 𐑕𐑸𐑑𐑱𐑯𐑑𐑦.”</p>
    <p>“𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑹𐑛,” 𐑲 𐑢𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑼𐑛, “𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑱𐑯𐑑 𐑞 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑑?”</p>
    <p>“𐑴, 𐑯𐑴,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑣𐑰, 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑛𐑲𐑩𐑚𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑳𐑯𐑦, “𐑞 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽 𐑦𐑟 𐑩 𐑛𐑸𐑒 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑧𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑗𐑨𐑐. 𐑣𐑰 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑰𐑑𐑕 𐑛𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑦𐑙𐑟, 𐑣𐑰 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑—𐑣𐑰 𐑰𐑑𐑕 𐑯𐑳𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑕, 𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑤𐑲𐑒𐑕 '𐑩𐑥 𐑮𐑺.”</p>
    <p>“𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤 𐑣𐑰 𐑛𐑳𐑟,” 𐑕𐑧𐑟 𐑲. “𐑢𐑺 𐑦𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽? 𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑽?”</p>
    <p>“𐑣𐑰'𐑤 𐑚𐑰 𐑣𐑽 𐑩𐑓𐑹 𐑤𐑪𐑙,” 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑼.</p>
    <p>𐑲 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑐 𐑦𐑑, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑲 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑨𐑯 𐑑 𐑓𐑰𐑤 𐑕𐑩𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 “𐑛𐑸𐑒 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑧𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑛” 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽. 𐑨𐑑 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑮𐑱𐑑, 𐑲 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑳𐑐 𐑥𐑲 𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑓 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑴 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑛 𐑬𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑰 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐 𐑑𐑩𐑜𐑧𐑞𐑼, 𐑣𐑰 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑧𐑕 𐑯 𐑜𐑧𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑚𐑧𐑛 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑲 𐑛𐑦𐑛.</p>
    <p>𐑕𐑳𐑐𐑼 𐑴𐑝𐑼, 𐑞 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑦 𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑚𐑨𐑒 𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑸-𐑮𐑵𐑥, 𐑢𐑧𐑯, 𐑯𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑧𐑤𐑕 𐑑 𐑛𐑵 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑥𐑲𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓, 𐑲 𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑪𐑤𐑝𐑛 𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑰𐑝𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑼 𐑪𐑯.</p>
    <p>𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑩 𐑮𐑲𐑩𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑯𐑶𐑟 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑣𐑻𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑. 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑐, 𐑞 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑹𐑛 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛, “𐑞𐑨𐑑'𐑕 𐑞 ·𐑜𐑮𐑨𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑕'𐑩𐑟 𐑒𐑮𐑵. 𐑲 𐑕𐑰𐑛 𐑣𐑻 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑹𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑪𐑓𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑥𐑹𐑯𐑦𐑙; 𐑩 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑘𐑽𐑟' 𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡, 𐑯 𐑩 𐑓𐑫𐑤 𐑖𐑦𐑐. 𐑣𐑼𐑭, 𐑚𐑶𐑟; 𐑯𐑬 𐑢𐑰'𐑤 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑞 𐑤𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑯𐑿𐑟 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 ·𐑝𐑰𐑡𐑰𐑟.”</p>
    <p>𐑩 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑥𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑕𐑰 𐑚𐑵𐑑𐑕 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑣𐑻𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑦; 𐑞 𐑛𐑹 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑓𐑤𐑳𐑙 𐑴𐑐𐑩𐑯, 𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑮𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑩 𐑢𐑲𐑤𐑛 𐑕𐑧𐑑 𐑝 𐑥𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑯𐑼𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑳𐑓. 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑧𐑤𐑩𐑐𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑖𐑨𐑜𐑦 𐑢𐑪𐑗 𐑒𐑴𐑑𐑕, 𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑺 𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑟 𐑥𐑳𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑫𐑤𐑩𐑯 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑓𐑼𐑑𐑼𐑟, 𐑷𐑤 𐑚𐑧𐑛𐑸𐑯𐑛 𐑯 𐑮𐑨𐑜𐑛, 𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑚𐑽𐑛𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑓 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑲𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑟, 𐑞𐑱 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑮𐑳𐑐𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑚𐑺𐑟 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 ·𐑤𐑨𐑚𐑮𐑩𐑛𐑹. 𐑞𐑱 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞𐑺 𐑚𐑴𐑑, 𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑬𐑕 𐑞𐑱 𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑛. 𐑯𐑴 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼, 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑱 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑒 𐑓 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤'𐑟 𐑥𐑬𐑔—𐑞 𐑚𐑸—𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩, 𐑞𐑺 𐑩𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑦𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑙, 𐑕𐑵𐑯 𐑐𐑹𐑛 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑬𐑑 𐑚𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑼𐑟 𐑷𐑤 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛. 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑝 𐑩 𐑚𐑨𐑛 𐑒𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑧𐑛, 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑗 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩 𐑥𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑩 𐑐𐑦𐑗-𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑐𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑡𐑦𐑯 𐑯 𐑥𐑩𐑤𐑨𐑕𐑩𐑟, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑢𐑹 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑕𐑪𐑝𐑮𐑩𐑯 𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼 𐑓 𐑷𐑤 𐑒𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑟 𐑯 𐑒𐑩𐑑𐑸𐑟 𐑢𐑪𐑑𐑕𐑴𐑧𐑝𐑼, 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑝 𐑣𐑬 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙, 𐑹 𐑢𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑒𐑷𐑑 𐑪𐑓 𐑞 𐑒𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑝 ·𐑤𐑨𐑚𐑮𐑩𐑛𐑹, 𐑹 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑝 𐑩𐑯 𐑲𐑕-𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛.</p>
    <p>𐑞 𐑤𐑦𐑒𐑼 𐑕𐑵𐑯 𐑥𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞𐑺 𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑟, 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑳𐑟 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑨𐑮𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑑𐑴𐑐𐑼𐑟 𐑯𐑿𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑕𐑰, 𐑯 𐑞𐑱 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑨𐑯 𐑒𐑱𐑐𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑩𐑚𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑐𐑼𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦.</p>
    <p>𐑲 𐑩𐑚𐑟𐑻𐑝𐑛, 𐑣𐑬𐑧𐑝𐑼, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑛 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑩𐑤𐑵𐑓, 𐑯 𐑞𐑴 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑛𐑦𐑟𐑲𐑼𐑩𐑕 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑶𐑤 𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑤𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑥𐑱𐑑𐑕 𐑚𐑲 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯 𐑕𐑴𐑚𐑼 𐑓𐑱𐑕, 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑣𐑰 𐑮𐑦𐑓𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑥𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑟 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑯𐑶𐑟 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑. 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑩𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑥𐑰 𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕; 𐑯 𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑕 𐑞 𐑕𐑰-𐑜𐑪𐑛𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑹𐑛𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑕𐑵𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑥𐑲 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑥𐑱𐑑 (𐑞𐑴 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐𐑦𐑙-𐑐𐑸𐑑𐑯𐑼 𐑢𐑳𐑯, 𐑕𐑴 𐑓𐑸 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑑𐑦𐑝 𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑻𐑯𐑛), 𐑲 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑣𐑽 𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑗𐑼 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑥. 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑑𐑫𐑛 𐑓𐑫𐑤 𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑕 𐑓𐑰𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑲𐑑, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑯𐑴𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑖𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑼𐑟, 𐑯 𐑩 𐑗𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑒𐑪𐑓𐑼-𐑛𐑨𐑥. 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑛𐑩𐑥 𐑕𐑰𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑚𐑮𐑷𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑥𐑨𐑯. 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑱𐑕 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑛𐑰𐑐𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑮𐑬𐑯 𐑯 𐑚𐑻𐑯𐑑, 𐑥𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑑𐑰𐑔 𐑛𐑨𐑟𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑭𐑕𐑑; 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑛𐑰𐑐 𐑖𐑨𐑛𐑴𐑟 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑲𐑟 𐑓𐑤𐑴𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑮𐑧𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥 𐑑 𐑜𐑦𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑡𐑶. 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑝𐑶𐑕 𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕 𐑩𐑯𐑬𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 ·𐑕𐑳𐑞𐑼𐑯𐑼, 𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑲𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑗𐑼, 𐑲 𐑔𐑷𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑑𐑷𐑤 𐑥𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑽𐑟 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 ·𐑨𐑤𐑦𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑾𐑯 ·𐑮𐑦𐑡 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑝𐑼𐑡𐑦𐑯𐑾. 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞 𐑮𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑮𐑦 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑨𐑯𐑘𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑥𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑑 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑣𐑲𐑑, 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑕𐑤𐑦𐑐𐑑 𐑩𐑢𐑱 𐑳𐑯𐑩𐑚𐑟𐑻𐑝𐑛, 𐑯 𐑲 𐑕𐑷 𐑯𐑴 𐑥𐑹 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑣𐑰 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑥𐑲 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑮𐑱𐑛 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑰. 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑓𐑿 𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑕, 𐑣𐑬𐑧𐑝𐑼, 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑥𐑱𐑑𐑕, 𐑯 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙, 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑟, 𐑓 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑮𐑰𐑟𐑩𐑯 𐑩 𐑣𐑿𐑡 𐑓𐑱𐑝𐑼𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑧𐑥, 𐑞𐑱 𐑮𐑱𐑟𐑛 𐑩 𐑒𐑮𐑲 𐑝 “𐑚𐑳𐑤𐑒𐑦𐑙𐑑𐑩𐑯! 𐑚𐑳𐑤𐑒𐑦𐑙𐑑𐑩𐑯! 𐑢𐑺'𐑟 ·𐑚𐑳𐑤𐑒𐑦𐑙𐑑𐑩𐑯?” 𐑯 𐑛𐑸𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑣𐑬𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑿𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑥.</p>
    <p>𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑬 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑯𐑲𐑯 𐑴'𐑒𐑤𐑪𐑒, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑮𐑵𐑥 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑵𐑐𐑼𐑯𐑨𐑗𐑼𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑩𐑑 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑹𐑡𐑦𐑟, 𐑲 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑨𐑯 𐑑 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑜𐑮𐑨𐑗𐑩𐑤𐑱𐑑 𐑥𐑲𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑐𐑤𐑨𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑩𐑒𐑻𐑛 𐑑 𐑥𐑰 𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑰𐑝𐑾𐑕 𐑑 𐑞 𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑧𐑯.</p>
    <p>𐑯𐑴 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑓𐑻𐑟 𐑑 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐 𐑑𐑵 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑚𐑧𐑛. 𐑦𐑯 𐑓𐑨𐑒𐑑, 𐑿 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑩 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑛𐑰𐑤 𐑮𐑭𐑞𐑼 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑘𐑹 𐑴𐑯 𐑚𐑮𐑳𐑞𐑼. 𐑲 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑯𐑴 𐑣𐑬 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑐𐑰𐑐𐑩𐑤 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑝𐑩𐑑 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞𐑱 𐑸 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐𐑦𐑙. 𐑯 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑦𐑑 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑟 𐑑 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩𐑯 𐑳𐑯𐑯𐑴𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑼, 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡 𐑦𐑯, 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡 𐑑𐑬𐑯, 𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑼 𐑩 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽, 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑘𐑹 𐑩𐑚𐑡𐑧𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑧𐑓𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑥𐑳𐑤𐑑𐑦𐑐𐑤𐑲. 𐑯𐑹 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞𐑺 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑻𐑔𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑰𐑟𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑲 𐑲 𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐 𐑑𐑵 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑚𐑧𐑛, 𐑥𐑹 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑧𐑯𐑦𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦 𐑧𐑤𐑕; 𐑓 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼𐑟 𐑯𐑴 𐑥𐑹 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐 𐑑𐑵 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑚𐑧𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑰, 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑚𐑨𐑗𐑩𐑤𐑼 ·𐑒𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑛𐑵 𐑩𐑖𐑹. 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑖𐑫𐑼 𐑞𐑱 𐑷𐑤 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐 𐑑𐑩𐑜𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑩𐑐𐑸𐑑𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑿 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑘𐑹 𐑴𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑥𐑩𐑒, 𐑯 𐑒𐑳𐑝𐑼 𐑘𐑹𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑘𐑹 𐑴𐑯 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑩𐑑, 𐑯 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐 𐑦𐑯 𐑘𐑹 𐑴𐑯 𐑕𐑒𐑦𐑯.</p>
    <p>𐑞 𐑥𐑹 𐑲 𐑐𐑪𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑛 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽, 𐑞 𐑥𐑹 𐑲 𐑩𐑚𐑪𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑞 𐑔𐑷𐑑 𐑝 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑥. 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑓𐑺 𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑿𐑥 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽, 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑯 𐑹 𐑢𐑫𐑤𐑩𐑯, 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑒𐑱𐑕 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑚𐑰, 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑝 𐑞 𐑑𐑲𐑛𐑾𐑕𐑑, 𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑯𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑩𐑕𐑑. 𐑲 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑨𐑯 𐑑 𐑑𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑷𐑤 𐑴𐑝𐑼. 𐑚𐑦𐑕𐑲𐑛𐑟, 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑜𐑧𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑱𐑑, 𐑯 𐑥𐑲 𐑛𐑰𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽 𐑷𐑑 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑣𐑴𐑥 𐑯 𐑜𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑧𐑛𐑢𐑼𐑛𐑟. 𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑴𐑟 𐑯𐑬, 𐑣𐑰 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑑𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑥𐑰 𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑯𐑲𐑑—𐑣𐑬 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑲 𐑑𐑧𐑤 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑝𐑲𐑤 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑦𐑙?</p>
    <p>“𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑹𐑛! 𐑲'𐑝 𐑗𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑛 𐑥𐑲 𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽.—𐑲 𐑖𐑭𐑯𐑑 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑥. 𐑲'𐑤 𐑑𐑮𐑲 𐑞 𐑚𐑧𐑯𐑗 𐑣𐑽.”</p>
    <p>“𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑿 𐑐𐑤𐑰𐑟; 𐑲'𐑥 𐑕𐑪𐑮𐑦 𐑲 𐑒𐑭𐑯𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑺 𐑘𐑰 𐑩 𐑑𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑒𐑤𐑪𐑔 𐑓 𐑩 𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑕, 𐑯 𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑩 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑜𐑦 𐑮𐑳𐑓 𐑚𐑹𐑛 𐑣𐑽”—𐑓𐑰𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑞 𐑯𐑪𐑑𐑕 𐑯 𐑯𐑪𐑗𐑩𐑟. “𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑑 𐑩 𐑚𐑦𐑑, ·𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑟𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑼; 𐑲'𐑝 𐑜𐑪𐑑 𐑩 𐑒𐑸𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑼'𐑟 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑸—𐑢𐑱𐑑, 𐑲 𐑕𐑱, 𐑯 𐑲'𐑤 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑘𐑰 𐑕𐑯𐑳𐑜 𐑦𐑯𐑳𐑓.” 𐑕𐑴 𐑕𐑱𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑰 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑛 𐑞 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯; 𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑕𐑦𐑤𐑒 𐑣𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑼𐑗𐑦𐑓 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑛𐑳𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑚𐑧𐑯𐑗, 𐑝𐑦𐑜𐑼𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑧𐑑 𐑑 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑢𐑱 𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑲 𐑚𐑧𐑛, 𐑞 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑜𐑮𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩𐑯 𐑱𐑐. 𐑞 𐑖𐑱𐑝𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑓𐑤𐑵 𐑮𐑲𐑑 𐑯 𐑤𐑧𐑓𐑑; 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑞 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯-𐑲𐑼𐑯 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑚𐑳𐑥𐑐 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑯𐑪𐑑. 𐑞 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑹𐑛 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑽 𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑑, 𐑯 𐑲 𐑑𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑓 𐑣𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯'𐑟 𐑕𐑱𐑒 𐑑 𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑑—𐑞 𐑚𐑧𐑛 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑪𐑓𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑳𐑓 𐑑 𐑕𐑵𐑑 𐑥𐑰, 𐑯 𐑲 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑯𐑴 𐑣𐑬 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑲𐑛𐑼 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑝 𐑩 𐑐𐑲𐑯 𐑐𐑤𐑨𐑙𐑒. 𐑕𐑴 𐑜𐑨𐑞𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑐 𐑞 𐑖𐑱𐑝𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩𐑯𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑜𐑮𐑦𐑯, 𐑯 𐑔𐑮𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑝 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑞 𐑮𐑵𐑥, 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑦𐑟𐑯𐑩𐑕, 𐑯 𐑤𐑧𐑓𐑑 𐑥𐑰 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑚𐑮𐑬𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑛𐑦.</p>
    <p>𐑲 𐑯𐑬 𐑑𐑫𐑒 𐑞 𐑥𐑧𐑠𐑼 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑧𐑯𐑗, 𐑯 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑓𐑫𐑑 𐑑𐑵 𐑖𐑹𐑑; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑚𐑰 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑗𐑺. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑓𐑫𐑑 𐑑𐑵 𐑯𐑼𐑴, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑚𐑧𐑯𐑗 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑮𐑵𐑥 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑓𐑹 𐑦𐑯𐑗𐑩𐑟 𐑣𐑲𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑢𐑳𐑯—𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑴 𐑘𐑴𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑧𐑥. 𐑲 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕𐑑 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑧𐑯𐑗 𐑤𐑧𐑙𐑔𐑢𐑲𐑟 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑞 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑤𐑽 𐑕𐑐𐑱𐑕 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑷𐑤, 𐑤𐑰𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑝𐑩𐑤 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑢𐑰𐑯, 𐑓 𐑥𐑲 𐑚𐑨𐑒 𐑑 𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑦𐑯. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑲 𐑕𐑵𐑯 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑛𐑮𐑭𐑓𐑑 𐑝 𐑒𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑺 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑥𐑰 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑞 𐑕𐑦𐑤 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑴, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑐𐑤𐑨𐑯 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑛𐑵 𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤, 𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑨𐑟 𐑩𐑯𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑒𐑳𐑮𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑑𐑦 𐑛𐑹 𐑥𐑧𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑴, 𐑯 𐑚𐑴𐑔 𐑑𐑩𐑜𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑛 𐑩 𐑕𐑽𐑰𐑟 𐑝 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑦𐑥𐑰𐑛𐑾𐑑 𐑝𐑦𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑐𐑪𐑑 𐑢𐑺 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑔𐑷𐑑 𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑯𐑲𐑑.</p>
    <p>𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤 𐑓𐑧𐑗 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽, 𐑔𐑷𐑑 𐑲, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑪𐑐, 𐑒𐑫𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑲 𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤 𐑩 𐑥𐑸𐑗 𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥—𐑚𐑴𐑤𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑹 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑲𐑛, 𐑯 𐑡𐑳𐑥𐑐 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑧𐑛, 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑢𐑱𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑒𐑦𐑙𐑟? 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑯𐑴 𐑚𐑨𐑛 𐑲𐑛𐑾; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑕𐑧𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑔𐑷𐑑𐑕 𐑲 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑑. 𐑓 𐑣𐑵 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑑𐑧𐑤 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑞 𐑯𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑹𐑯𐑦𐑙, 𐑕𐑴 𐑕𐑵𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑲 𐑐𐑪𐑐𐑑 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑮𐑵𐑥, 𐑞 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑦, 𐑷𐑤 𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑦 𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑒 𐑥𐑰 𐑛𐑬𐑯!</p>
    <p>𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤, 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑥𐑰 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯, 𐑯 𐑕𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑯𐑴 𐑐𐑪𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑗𐑭𐑯𐑕 𐑝 𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑕𐑳𐑓𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑯𐑲𐑑 𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑧𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑐𐑻𐑕𐑩𐑯'𐑟 𐑚𐑧𐑛, 𐑲 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑨𐑯 𐑑 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑷𐑤 𐑲 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑗𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑖𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑯𐑢𐑪𐑮𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑡𐑩𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑳𐑯𐑯𐑴𐑯 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽. 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑕 𐑲, 𐑲'𐑤 𐑢𐑱𐑑 𐑩𐑢𐑲𐑤; 𐑣𐑰 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑛𐑮𐑪𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑤𐑪𐑙. 𐑲'𐑤 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑩 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑯 𐑐𐑼𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑕 𐑢𐑰 𐑥𐑱 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑡𐑪𐑤𐑦 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑚𐑧𐑛𐑓𐑧𐑤𐑴𐑟 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑷𐑤—𐑞𐑺'𐑟 𐑯𐑴 𐑑𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑙.</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑴 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑚𐑹𐑛𐑼𐑟 𐑒𐑧𐑐𐑑 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑚𐑲 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑟, 𐑑𐑵𐑟, 𐑯 𐑔𐑮𐑰𐑟, 𐑯 𐑜𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑚𐑧𐑛, 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑯𐑴 𐑕𐑲𐑯 𐑝 𐑥𐑲 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽.</p>
    <p>“𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑹𐑛!” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑲, “𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑩 𐑗𐑨𐑐 𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑰—𐑛𐑳𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑷𐑤𐑢𐑱𐑟 𐑒𐑰𐑐 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑤𐑱𐑑 𐑬𐑼𐑟?” 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑬 𐑣𐑸𐑛 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑑𐑢𐑧𐑤𐑝 𐑴'𐑒𐑤𐑪𐑒.</p>
    <p>𐑞 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑹𐑛 𐑗𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑰𐑯 𐑗𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑤, 𐑯 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑥𐑲𐑑𐑦𐑤𐑦 𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑦𐑘𐑪𐑯𐑛 𐑥𐑲 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑣𐑧𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑯. “𐑯𐑴,” 𐑣𐑰 𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑼𐑛, “𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑰'𐑟 𐑩𐑯 𐑻𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑻𐑛—𐑺𐑤𐑦 𐑑 𐑚𐑧𐑛 𐑯 𐑺𐑤𐑦 𐑑 𐑮𐑲𐑟—𐑘𐑧𐑕, 𐑣𐑰'𐑟 𐑞 𐑚𐑻𐑛 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑒𐑨𐑗𐑩𐑟 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑥. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑑-𐑯𐑲𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑬𐑑 𐑩 𐑐𐑧𐑛𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙, 𐑿 𐑕𐑰, 𐑯 𐑲 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑕𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑪𐑯 ·𐑱𐑻𐑔 𐑒𐑰𐑐𐑕 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑕𐑴 𐑤𐑱𐑑, 𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑧𐑕, 𐑥𐑱 𐑚𐑰, 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑭𐑯𐑑 𐑕𐑧𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑧𐑛.”</p>
    <p>“𐑒𐑭𐑯𐑑 𐑕𐑧𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑧𐑛?—𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑩 𐑚𐑨𐑥𐑚𐑵𐑟𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑦 𐑦𐑟 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑿 𐑸 𐑑𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑰?” 𐑜𐑧𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑩 𐑑𐑬𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑮𐑱𐑡. “𐑛𐑵 𐑿 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑕𐑱, 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑹𐑛, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽 𐑦𐑟 𐑨𐑒𐑗𐑵𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑜𐑱𐑡𐑛 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑚𐑤𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑨𐑑𐑼𐑛𐑱 𐑯𐑲𐑑, 𐑹 𐑮𐑭𐑞𐑼 𐑕𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑱 𐑥𐑹𐑯𐑦𐑙, 𐑦𐑯 𐑐𐑧𐑛𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑼𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑑𐑬𐑯?”</p>
    <p>“𐑞𐑨𐑑'𐑕 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑲𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑑,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑞 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑹𐑛, “𐑯 𐑲 𐑑𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑫𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑕𐑧𐑤 𐑦𐑑 𐑣𐑽, 𐑞 𐑥𐑸𐑒𐑩𐑑'𐑕 𐑴𐑝𐑼𐑕𐑑𐑪𐑒𐑑.”</p>
    <p>“𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑢𐑪𐑑?” 𐑖𐑬𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑲.</p>
    <p>“𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑟 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑖𐑫𐑼; 𐑱𐑯𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑑𐑵 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛?”</p>
    <p>“𐑲 𐑑𐑧𐑤 𐑿 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟, 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑹𐑛,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑲 𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑒𐑭𐑥𐑤𐑦, “𐑿'𐑛 𐑚𐑧𐑑𐑼 𐑕𐑑𐑪𐑐 𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑘𐑸𐑯 𐑑 𐑥𐑰—𐑲'𐑥 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑯.”</p>
    <p>“𐑥𐑱 𐑚𐑰 𐑯𐑪𐑑,” 𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑑 𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑑𐑵𐑔𐑐𐑦𐑒, “𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑲 𐑮𐑱𐑔𐑼 𐑜𐑧𐑕 𐑿'𐑤 𐑚𐑰 𐑛𐑳𐑯 <i>𐑚𐑮𐑬𐑯</i> 𐑦𐑓 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑺 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽 𐑣𐑽𐑟 𐑿 𐑩 𐑕𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑦𐑯' 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑧𐑛.”</p>
    <p>“𐑲'𐑤 𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑒 𐑦𐑑 𐑓 𐑣𐑦𐑥,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑲, 𐑯𐑬 𐑓𐑤𐑲𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑩 𐑐𐑭𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑳𐑯𐑩𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑓𐑼𐑭𐑜𐑴 𐑝 𐑞 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑹𐑛'𐑟.</p>
    <p>“𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑚𐑮𐑴𐑒 𐑩'𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑦,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑣𐑰.</p>
    <p>“𐑚𐑮𐑴𐑒,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑲—“<i>𐑚𐑮𐑴𐑒</i>, 𐑛𐑵 𐑿 𐑥𐑰𐑯?”</p>
    <p>“𐑕𐑸𐑑𐑱𐑯, 𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑'𐑕 𐑞 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑮𐑰𐑟𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑭𐑯𐑑 𐑕𐑧𐑤 𐑦𐑑, 𐑲 𐑜𐑧𐑕.”</p>
    <p>“𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑹𐑛,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑲, 𐑜𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑐 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑨𐑟 𐑒𐑵𐑤 𐑨𐑟 ·𐑥𐑑 ·𐑣𐑧𐑒𐑤𐑩 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑕𐑯𐑴-𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑥—“𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑹𐑛, 𐑕𐑑𐑪𐑐 𐑢𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙. 𐑿 𐑯 𐑲 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑩𐑯𐑳𐑞𐑼, 𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑑𐑵 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑱. 𐑲 𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑑 𐑘𐑹 𐑣𐑬𐑕 𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑯𐑑 𐑩 𐑚𐑧𐑛; 𐑿 𐑑𐑧𐑤 𐑥𐑰 𐑿 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑜𐑦𐑝 𐑥𐑰 𐑣𐑭𐑓 𐑩 𐑢𐑳𐑯; 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑣𐑭𐑓 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑪𐑙𐑟 𐑑 𐑩 𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽. 𐑯 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽, 𐑣𐑵𐑥 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑯, 𐑿 𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑦𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑑𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑰 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑓𐑲𐑦𐑙 𐑯 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑨𐑕𐑐𐑼𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑧𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑰 𐑩𐑯 𐑳𐑯𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑓𐑼𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑓𐑰𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑑𐑩𐑢𐑹𐑛𐑟 𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑣𐑵𐑥 𐑿 𐑛𐑦𐑟𐑲𐑯 𐑓 𐑥𐑲 𐑚𐑧𐑛𐑓𐑧𐑤𐑴—𐑩 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑧𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑹𐑛, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑦𐑟 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑑 𐑯 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑓𐑦𐑛𐑧𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑣𐑲𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑜𐑮𐑰. 𐑲 𐑯𐑬 𐑛𐑦𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑛 𐑝 𐑿 𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑒 𐑬𐑑 𐑯 𐑑𐑧𐑤 𐑥𐑰 𐑣𐑵 𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽 𐑦𐑟, 𐑯 𐑢𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑲 𐑖𐑨𐑤 𐑚𐑰 𐑦𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑕 𐑕𐑱𐑓 𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑯𐑲𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑥. 𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕, 𐑿 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑚𐑰 𐑕𐑴 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑨𐑟 𐑑 𐑳𐑯𐑕𐑱 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑦 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑧𐑛, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑦𐑓 𐑑𐑮𐑵 𐑲 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑧𐑝𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽 𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑒 𐑥𐑨𐑛, 𐑯 𐑲'𐑝 𐑯𐑴 𐑲𐑛𐑾 𐑝 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑥𐑨𐑛𐑥𐑩𐑯; 𐑯 𐑿, 𐑕𐑻, <i>𐑿</i> 𐑲 𐑥𐑰𐑯, 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑹𐑛, <i>𐑿</i>, 𐑕𐑻, 𐑚𐑲 𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑿𐑕 𐑥𐑰 𐑑 𐑛𐑵 𐑕𐑴 𐑯𐑴𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦, 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑞𐑺𐑚𐑲 𐑮𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑘𐑹𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑤𐑲𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑑 𐑩 𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑖𐑩𐑯.”</p>
    <p>“𐑢𐑷𐑤,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑞 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑹𐑛, 𐑓𐑧𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑚𐑮𐑧𐑔, “𐑞𐑨𐑑'𐑕 𐑩 𐑐𐑻𐑑𐑦 𐑤𐑪𐑙 ·𐑕𐑸𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑓 𐑩 𐑗𐑨𐑐 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑕 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑯𐑬 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑰𐑟𐑦, 𐑚𐑰 𐑰𐑟𐑦, 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑣𐑽 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑑𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑯' 𐑿 𐑝 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑼𐑲𐑝𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑕𐑬𐑔 𐑕𐑰𐑟, 𐑢𐑺 𐑣𐑰 𐑚𐑷𐑑 𐑳𐑐 𐑩 𐑤𐑪𐑑 𐑝 '𐑚𐑭𐑥𐑛 ·𐑯𐑿 ·𐑟𐑰𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑟 (𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑦𐑴𐑟, 𐑿 𐑯𐑴), 𐑯 𐑣𐑰'𐑟 𐑕𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑷𐑤 𐑪𐑯 '𐑩𐑥 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯, 𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑣𐑰'𐑟 𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑕𐑧𐑤 𐑑-𐑯𐑲𐑑, 𐑒𐑷𐑟 𐑑-𐑥𐑪𐑮𐑴'𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑱, 𐑯 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑛𐑵 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑯' 𐑣𐑿𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑟 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑰𐑑𐑕 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑓𐑴𐑒𐑕 𐑦𐑟 𐑜𐑴𐑦𐑯' 𐑑 𐑗𐑻𐑗𐑩𐑟. 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑑, 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑱, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑲 𐑕𐑑𐑪𐑐𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑜𐑴𐑦𐑯' 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑛𐑹 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑓𐑹 𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑙 𐑪𐑯 𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑙, 𐑓 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 ·𐑱𐑻𐑔 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑙 𐑝 ·𐑦𐑯𐑾𐑯𐑟.”</p>
    <p>𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑩𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑 𐑒𐑤𐑽𐑛 𐑳𐑐 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼𐑢𐑲𐑟 𐑳𐑯𐑩𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑦, 𐑯 𐑖𐑴𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑹𐑛, 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑷𐑤, 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑯𐑴 𐑲𐑛𐑾 𐑝 𐑓𐑵𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑰—𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑲 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑝 𐑩 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽 𐑣𐑵 𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑛 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑩 𐑕𐑨𐑑𐑼𐑛𐑱 𐑯𐑲𐑑 𐑒𐑤𐑰𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑦 ·𐑕𐑨𐑚𐑩𐑔, 𐑦𐑯𐑜𐑱𐑡𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑚𐑦𐑟𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑨𐑟 𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑟 𐑝 𐑛𐑧𐑛 𐑲𐑛𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑑𐑼𐑟?</p>
    <p>“𐑛𐑦𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑦𐑑, 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑹𐑛, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽 𐑦𐑟 𐑩 𐑛𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑼𐑩𐑕 𐑥𐑨𐑯.”</p>
    <p>“𐑣𐑰 𐑐𐑱𐑟 𐑮𐑰𐑜'𐑤𐑸,” 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑡𐑶𐑯𐑛𐑼. “𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑒𐑳𐑥, 𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑜𐑧𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑛𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑤𐑱𐑑, 𐑿 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑧𐑑𐑼 𐑚𐑰 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑤𐑵𐑒𐑕—𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑩 𐑯𐑲𐑕 𐑚𐑧𐑛; ·𐑕𐑨𐑤 𐑯 𐑥𐑰 𐑕𐑤𐑧𐑐𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑺 𐑚𐑧𐑛 𐑞 𐑯𐑲𐑑 𐑢𐑰 𐑢𐑻 𐑕𐑐𐑤𐑲𐑕𐑑. 𐑞𐑺'𐑟 𐑐𐑤𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑮𐑵𐑥 𐑓 𐑑𐑵 𐑑 𐑒𐑦𐑒 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑚𐑧𐑛; 𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑩𐑯 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑲𐑑𐑦 𐑚𐑦𐑜 𐑚𐑧𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑. 𐑢𐑲, 𐑩𐑓𐑹 𐑢𐑰 𐑜𐑦𐑝 𐑦𐑑 𐑳𐑐, ·𐑕𐑨𐑤 𐑿𐑕𐑑 𐑑 𐑐𐑫𐑑 𐑬𐑼 ·𐑕𐑨𐑥 𐑯 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 ·𐑡𐑪𐑯𐑦 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑫𐑑 𐑝 𐑦𐑑. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑲 𐑜𐑪𐑑 𐑩 𐑛𐑮𐑰𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑯 𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑷𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑯𐑲𐑑, 𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑣𐑬, ·𐑕𐑨𐑥 𐑜𐑪𐑑 𐑐𐑦𐑗𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑤𐑹, 𐑯 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑯𐑽 𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑸𐑥. 𐑸𐑑𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑑, ·𐑕𐑨𐑤 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑫𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑛𐑵. 𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑣𐑽, 𐑲'𐑤 𐑜𐑦𐑝 𐑘𐑰 𐑩 𐑜𐑤𐑦𐑥 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑡𐑦𐑓𐑦;” 𐑯 𐑕𐑴 𐑕𐑱𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑰 𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑩 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑤 𐑯 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑑𐑩𐑢𐑹𐑛𐑟 𐑥𐑰, 𐑪𐑓𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑤𐑰𐑛 𐑞 𐑢𐑱. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑲 𐑕𐑑𐑫𐑛 𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑤𐑵𐑑; 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑑 𐑩 𐑒𐑤𐑪𐑒 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑹𐑯𐑼, 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑒𐑤𐑱𐑥𐑛 “𐑲 𐑝𐑳𐑥 𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑕𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑱—𐑿 𐑢𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑕𐑰 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽 𐑑-𐑯𐑲𐑑; 𐑣𐑰'𐑟 𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑑 𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑼 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑢𐑺—𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑞𐑧𐑯; <i>𐑛𐑵</i> 𐑒𐑳𐑥; <i>𐑢𐑴𐑯𐑑</i> 𐑘𐑰 𐑒𐑳𐑥?”</p>
    <p>𐑲 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑼𐑛 𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑼 𐑩 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑, 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑳𐑐 𐑕𐑑𐑺𐑟 𐑢𐑰 𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑑, 𐑯 𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑳𐑖𐑼𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑩 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤 𐑮𐑵𐑥, 𐑒𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑒𐑤𐑨𐑥, 𐑯 𐑓𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑖𐑑, 𐑖𐑫𐑼 𐑦𐑯𐑳𐑓, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑛𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑕 𐑚𐑧𐑛, 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑜 𐑦𐑯𐑳𐑓 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑰𐑛 𐑓 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑓𐑹 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽𐑟 𐑑 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐 𐑩𐑚𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑.</p>
    <p>“𐑞𐑺,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑞 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑹𐑛, 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑤 𐑪𐑯 𐑩 𐑒𐑮𐑱𐑟𐑦 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑕𐑰 𐑗𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑛𐑳𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑛𐑿𐑑𐑦 𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑢𐑪𐑖-𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑯 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑼 𐑑𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤; “𐑞𐑺, 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑘𐑹𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑓𐑼𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑯𐑬, 𐑯 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑯𐑲𐑑 𐑑 𐑘𐑰.” 𐑲 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑛 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑲𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑚𐑧𐑛, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑽𐑛.</p>
    <p>𐑓𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑨𐑒 𐑞 𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑐𐑱𐑯, 𐑲 𐑕𐑑𐑵𐑐𐑑 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 𐑚𐑧𐑛. 𐑞𐑴 𐑯𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑜𐑩𐑯𐑑, 𐑦𐑑 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑫𐑛 𐑞 𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑦 𐑑𐑪𐑤𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑧𐑤. 𐑲 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑜𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑮𐑵𐑥; 𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑕𐑲𐑛𐑟 𐑞 𐑚𐑧𐑛𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑛 𐑯 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑼 𐑑𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤, 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑕𐑰 𐑯𐑴 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑓𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑗𐑼 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑪𐑙𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑞 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 𐑮𐑵𐑛 𐑖𐑧𐑤𐑓, 𐑞 𐑓𐑹 𐑢𐑷𐑤𐑟, 𐑯 𐑩 𐑐𐑱𐑐𐑼𐑛 𐑓𐑲𐑼𐑚𐑹𐑛 𐑮𐑧𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤. 𐑝 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑐𐑼𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑪𐑙𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑞 𐑮𐑵𐑥, 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑣𐑨𐑥𐑩𐑒 𐑤𐑨𐑖𐑑 𐑳𐑐, 𐑯 𐑔𐑮𐑴𐑯 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑤𐑹 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑒𐑹𐑯𐑼; 𐑷𐑤𐑕𐑴 𐑩 𐑤𐑸𐑡 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑩𐑯'𐑟 𐑚𐑨𐑜, 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑱𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽'𐑟 𐑢𐑹𐑛𐑮𐑴𐑚, 𐑯𐑴 𐑛𐑬𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑤𐑵 𐑝 𐑩 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑙𐑒. 𐑤𐑲𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑟, 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑐𐑸𐑕𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑬𐑑𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑖 𐑚𐑴𐑯 𐑓𐑦𐑖 𐑣𐑫𐑒𐑕 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑖𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 𐑓𐑲𐑼-𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕, 𐑯 𐑩 𐑑𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑧𐑛.</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑗𐑧𐑕𐑑? 𐑲 𐑑𐑫𐑒 𐑦𐑑 𐑳𐑐, 𐑯 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑒𐑤𐑴𐑕 𐑑 𐑞 𐑤𐑲𐑑, 𐑯 𐑓𐑧𐑤𐑑 𐑦𐑑, 𐑯 𐑕𐑥𐑧𐑤𐑑 𐑦𐑑, 𐑯 𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑛 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑢𐑱 𐑐𐑪𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑑 𐑼𐑲𐑝 𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑕𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑕𐑓𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑵𐑠𐑩𐑯 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑑. 𐑲 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑺 𐑦𐑑 𐑑 𐑯𐑳𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 𐑤𐑸𐑡 𐑛𐑹 𐑥𐑨𐑑, 𐑹𐑯𐑩𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑧𐑡𐑩𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑑𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑑𐑨𐑜𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑐𐑹𐑒𐑿𐑐𐑲𐑯 𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑤𐑟 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑩𐑯 ·𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑾𐑯 𐑥𐑪𐑒𐑩𐑕𐑦𐑯. 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑹 𐑕𐑤𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑥𐑨𐑑, 𐑨𐑟 𐑿 𐑕𐑰 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑕𐑬𐑔 ·𐑩𐑥𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑐𐑪𐑯𐑗𐑴𐑟. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑐𐑪𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑕𐑴𐑚𐑼 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑜𐑧𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑩 𐑛𐑹 𐑥𐑨𐑑, 𐑯 𐑐𐑼𐑱𐑛 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑰𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑧𐑯𐑦 ·𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑗𐑩𐑯 𐑑𐑬𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑜𐑲𐑟? 𐑲 𐑐𐑫𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑪𐑯, 𐑑 𐑑𐑮𐑲 𐑦𐑑, 𐑯 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑛 𐑥𐑰 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑣𐑨𐑥𐑐𐑼, 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑯𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑖𐑨𐑜𐑦 𐑯 𐑔𐑦𐑒, 𐑯 𐑲 𐑔𐑷𐑑 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑛𐑨𐑥𐑐, 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑴 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑽𐑾𐑕 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑢𐑺𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑑 𐑝 𐑩 𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑦 𐑛𐑱. 𐑲 𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑳𐑐 𐑦𐑯 𐑦𐑑 𐑑 𐑩 𐑚𐑦𐑑 𐑝 𐑜𐑤𐑭𐑕 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑒 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑷𐑤, 𐑯 𐑲 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑕𐑷 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑕𐑲𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑲 𐑤𐑲𐑓. 𐑲 𐑑𐑹 𐑥𐑲𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑣𐑳𐑮𐑦 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑲 𐑜𐑱𐑝 𐑥𐑲𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑩 𐑒𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑯𐑧𐑒.</p>
    <p>𐑲 𐑕𐑨𐑑 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑧𐑛, 𐑯 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑣𐑧𐑛-𐑐𐑧𐑛𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽, 𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑹 𐑥𐑨𐑑. 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑧𐑛-𐑕𐑲𐑛, 𐑲 𐑜𐑪𐑑 𐑳𐑐 𐑯 𐑑𐑫𐑒 𐑪𐑓 𐑥𐑲 𐑥𐑳𐑙𐑒𐑦 𐑡𐑨𐑒𐑩𐑑, 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑫𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑞 𐑮𐑵𐑥 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑦𐑙. 𐑲 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑑𐑫𐑒 𐑪𐑓 𐑥𐑲 𐑒𐑴𐑑, 𐑯 𐑔𐑷𐑑 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑥𐑹 𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑲 𐑖𐑻𐑑 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑝𐑟. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑓𐑰𐑤 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑒𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑯𐑬, 𐑣𐑭𐑓 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑟, 𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑧𐑥𐑚𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑞 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑹𐑛 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑞 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽'𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑴𐑥 𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑯𐑲𐑑, 𐑦𐑑 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑴 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑤𐑱𐑑, 𐑲 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑯𐑴 𐑥𐑹 𐑩𐑛𐑵, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑡𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑑 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑥𐑲 𐑐𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑵𐑯𐑟 𐑯 𐑚𐑵𐑑𐑕, 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑚𐑤𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑑 𐑞 𐑤𐑲𐑑 𐑑𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑚𐑧𐑛, 𐑯 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑥𐑲𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑑 𐑞 𐑒𐑺 𐑝 𐑣𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯.</p>
    <p>𐑢𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑕 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑓𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑒𐑹𐑯-𐑒𐑪𐑚𐑟 𐑹 𐑚𐑮𐑴𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑒𐑮𐑪𐑒𐑼𐑦, 𐑞𐑺 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑴 𐑑𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑙, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑲 𐑮𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑩 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑛𐑰𐑤, 𐑯 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐 𐑓 𐑩 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑑𐑲𐑥. 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑲 𐑕𐑤𐑦𐑛 𐑪𐑓 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑩 𐑤𐑲𐑑 𐑛𐑴𐑟, 𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑯𐑽𐑤𐑦 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑩 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑪𐑓𐑦𐑙 𐑑𐑩𐑢𐑹𐑛𐑟 𐑞 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑝 ·𐑯𐑪𐑛, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑲 𐑣𐑻𐑛 𐑩 𐑣𐑧𐑝𐑦 𐑓𐑫𐑑𐑓𐑷𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑨𐑕𐑦𐑡, 𐑯 𐑕𐑷 𐑩 𐑜𐑤𐑦𐑥𐑼 𐑝 𐑤𐑲𐑑 𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑮𐑵𐑥 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑞 𐑛𐑹.</p>
    <p>𐑤𐑹𐑛 𐑕𐑱𐑝 𐑥𐑰, 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑕 𐑲, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑞 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽, 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑻𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑣𐑧𐑛-𐑐𐑧𐑛𐑩𐑤𐑼. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑲 𐑤𐑱 𐑐𐑻𐑓𐑦𐑒𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤, 𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑪𐑤𐑝𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑑 𐑕𐑱 𐑩 𐑢𐑻𐑛 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑕𐑐𐑴𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑑. 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑤𐑲𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛, 𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑲𐑛𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 ·𐑯𐑿 ·𐑟𐑰𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼, 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑼 𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑛 𐑞 𐑮𐑵𐑥, 𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑑𐑩𐑢𐑹𐑛𐑟 𐑞 𐑚𐑧𐑛, 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑤 𐑩 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑢𐑱 𐑪𐑓 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑥𐑰 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑤𐑹 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑒𐑹𐑯𐑼, 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑨𐑯 𐑢𐑻𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑢𐑱 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑯𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑒𐑹𐑛𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑤𐑸𐑡 𐑚𐑨𐑜 𐑲 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑕𐑐𐑴𐑒 𐑝 𐑨𐑟 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑮𐑵𐑥. 𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑷𐑤 𐑰𐑜𐑼𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑑 𐑕𐑰 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑱𐑕, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑧𐑐𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑩𐑝𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑓 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑶𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑳𐑯𐑤𐑱𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑚𐑨𐑜'𐑟 𐑥𐑬𐑔. 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑩𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑦𐑖𐑑, 𐑣𐑬𐑧𐑝𐑼, 𐑣𐑰 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑛 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛—𐑢𐑧𐑯, 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑣𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯𐑟! 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑩 𐑕𐑲𐑑! 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑓𐑱𐑕! 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑝 𐑩 𐑛𐑸𐑒, 𐑐𐑻𐑐𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑖, 𐑘𐑧𐑤𐑴 𐑒𐑳𐑤𐑼, 𐑣𐑽 𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑒 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑤𐑸𐑡 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒𐑦𐑖 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑒𐑢𐑺𐑟. 𐑘𐑧𐑕, 𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑲 𐑔𐑷𐑑, 𐑣𐑰'𐑟 𐑩 𐑑𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑚𐑧𐑛𐑓𐑧𐑤𐑴; 𐑣𐑰'𐑟 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑓𐑲𐑑, 𐑜𐑪𐑑 𐑛𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑳𐑑, 𐑯 𐑣𐑽 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑟, 𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑕𐑻𐑡𐑩𐑯. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑗𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑑 𐑑𐑻𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑱𐑕 𐑕𐑴 𐑑𐑩𐑢𐑹𐑛𐑟 𐑞 𐑤𐑲𐑑, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑲 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑷 𐑞𐑱 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑦𐑙-𐑐𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤, 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒 𐑕𐑒𐑢𐑺𐑟 𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑗𐑰𐑒𐑕. 𐑞𐑱 𐑢𐑻 𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑹 𐑳𐑞𐑼. 𐑨𐑑 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑲 𐑯𐑿 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑑 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑵𐑯 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑞 𐑑𐑮𐑵𐑔 𐑩𐑒𐑻𐑛 𐑑 𐑥𐑰. 𐑲 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑧𐑥𐑚𐑼𐑛 𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑦 𐑝 𐑩 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑯—𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑑𐑵—𐑣𐑵, 𐑓𐑷𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑟, 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑑𐑩𐑑𐑵𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞𐑧𐑥. 𐑲 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑵𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽, 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑹𐑕 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑟, 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑥𐑧𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑤𐑼 𐑩𐑛𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑗𐑼. 𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑑, 𐑔𐑷𐑑 𐑲, 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑷𐑤! 𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑬𐑑𐑕𐑲𐑛; 𐑩 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑚𐑰 𐑪𐑯𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑕𐑒𐑦𐑯. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑑 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑳𐑯𐑻𐑔𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑧𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑝 𐑦𐑑, 𐑲 𐑥𐑰𐑯, 𐑤𐑲𐑦𐑙 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑, 𐑯 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑰𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑒𐑢𐑺𐑟 𐑝 𐑑𐑩𐑑𐑵𐑦𐑙. 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑖𐑫𐑼, 𐑦𐑑 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑯𐑳𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑒𐑴𐑑 𐑝 𐑑𐑮𐑪𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑙; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑲 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑣𐑻𐑛 𐑝 𐑩 𐑣𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑯'𐑟 𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑩 𐑐𐑻𐑐𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑖 𐑘𐑧𐑤𐑴 𐑢𐑳𐑯. 𐑣𐑬𐑧𐑝𐑼, 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑬𐑔 ·𐑕𐑰𐑟; 𐑯 𐑐𐑼𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑕 𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑛𐑿𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑹𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑼𐑦 𐑦𐑓𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑕 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑒𐑦𐑯. 𐑯𐑬, 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑲𐑛𐑾𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑐𐑭𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑥𐑰 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑯𐑦𐑙, 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑯𐑴𐑑𐑦𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑰 𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤. 𐑚𐑳𐑑, 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒𐑳𐑤𐑑𐑦 𐑣𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑴𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑨𐑜, 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑓𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑦𐑑, 𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑫𐑤𐑛 𐑬𐑑 𐑩 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑑𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑣𐑷𐑒, 𐑯 𐑩 𐑕𐑰𐑤-𐑕𐑒𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑣𐑺 𐑪𐑯. 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑗𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑞 𐑮𐑵𐑥, 𐑣𐑰 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑑𐑫𐑒 𐑞 ·𐑯𐑿 ·𐑟𐑰𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑧𐑛—𐑩 𐑜𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯𐑳𐑓—𐑯 𐑒𐑮𐑨𐑥𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑚𐑨𐑜. 𐑣𐑰 𐑯𐑬 𐑑𐑫𐑒 𐑪𐑓 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑑—𐑩 𐑯𐑿 𐑚𐑰𐑝𐑼 𐑣𐑨𐑑—𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑲 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑯𐑲 𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑖 𐑕𐑼𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑟. 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑴 𐑣𐑺 𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑧𐑛—𐑯𐑳𐑯 𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑒 𐑝 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑰𐑕𐑑—𐑯𐑳𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤 𐑕𐑒𐑨𐑤𐑐-𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑑𐑢𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑳𐑐 𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑛. 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑷𐑤𐑛 𐑐𐑻𐑐𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑖 𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑯𐑬 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑑 𐑓 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑥𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑿𐑛 𐑕𐑒𐑳𐑤. 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑼 𐑕𐑑𐑫𐑛 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑢𐑰𐑯 𐑥𐑰 𐑯 𐑞 𐑛𐑹, 𐑲 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑴𐑤𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑦𐑑 𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑒𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑲 𐑚𐑴𐑤𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑩 𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑼.</p>
    <p>𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟, 𐑲 𐑔𐑷𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑕𐑤𐑦𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑴, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑕𐑧𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑓𐑤𐑹 𐑚𐑨𐑒. 𐑲 𐑨𐑥 𐑯𐑴 𐑒𐑬𐑼𐑛, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑑 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑣𐑧𐑛-𐑐𐑧𐑛𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑐𐑻𐑐𐑩𐑤 𐑮𐑭𐑕𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑷𐑤𐑑𐑩𐑜𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑐𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑲 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑣𐑧𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑯. 𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑐𐑺𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑓𐑽, 𐑯 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑰𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑯𐑪𐑯𐑐𐑤𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑯 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑼, 𐑲 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑓𐑧𐑕 𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑬 𐑨𐑟 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑩𐑓𐑮𐑱𐑛 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑓 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑣𐑵 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑞𐑳𐑕 𐑚𐑮𐑴𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑥𐑲 𐑮𐑵𐑥 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑛 𐑝 𐑯𐑲𐑑. 𐑦𐑯 𐑓𐑨𐑒𐑑, 𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑴 𐑩𐑓𐑮𐑱𐑛 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑜𐑱𐑥 𐑦𐑯𐑳𐑓 𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑑 𐑩𐑛𐑮𐑧𐑕 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑛 𐑩 𐑕𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑕𐑓𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑼 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑤𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥.</p>
    <p>𐑥𐑰𐑯𐑢𐑲𐑤, 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑿𐑛 𐑞 𐑚𐑦𐑟𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑦𐑙, 𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑖𐑴𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑗𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑯 𐑸𐑥𐑟. 𐑨𐑟 𐑲 𐑤𐑦𐑝, 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑒𐑳𐑝𐑼𐑛 𐑐𐑸𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑢𐑻 𐑗𐑧𐑒𐑼𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑕𐑒𐑢𐑺𐑟 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑱𐑕; 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑨𐑒, 𐑑𐑵, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑷𐑤 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑛𐑸𐑒 𐑕𐑒𐑢𐑺𐑟; 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 ·𐑔𐑻𐑑𐑦 ·𐑘𐑽𐑟' ·𐑢𐑹, 𐑯 𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑱𐑐𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑦𐑙-𐑐𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑼 𐑖𐑻𐑑. 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑥𐑹, 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑤𐑧𐑜𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑥𐑸𐑒𐑑, 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑓 𐑩 𐑐𐑸𐑕𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑛𐑸𐑒 𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑜𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑮𐑳𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑐 𐑞 𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑙𐑒𐑕 𐑝 𐑘𐑳𐑙 𐑐𐑭𐑥𐑟. 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑬 𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑩𐑚𐑪𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑡 𐑹 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑑 𐑩𐑚𐑹𐑛 𐑝 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑬𐑔 ·𐑕𐑰𐑟, 𐑯 𐑕𐑴 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 ·𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑗𐑩𐑯 𐑒𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑦. 𐑲 𐑒𐑢𐑱𐑒𐑑 𐑑 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑝 𐑦𐑑. 𐑩 𐑐𐑧𐑛𐑩𐑤𐑼 𐑝 𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑟 𐑑𐑵—𐑐𐑼𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑕 𐑞 𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑟 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯 𐑚𐑮𐑳𐑞𐑼𐑟. 𐑣𐑰 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑩 𐑓𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑦 𐑑 𐑥𐑲𐑯—𐑣𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯𐑟! 𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑑𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑣𐑷𐑒!</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑴 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑓 𐑖𐑳𐑛𐑼𐑦𐑙, 𐑓 𐑯𐑬 𐑞 𐑕𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑡 𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑰𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑨𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑥𐑲 𐑩𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑯 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑝𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑰 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑰𐑛 𐑚𐑰 𐑩 𐑣𐑰𐑞𐑩𐑯. 𐑜𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑧𐑝𐑦 ·𐑜𐑮𐑧𐑜𐑴, 𐑹 𐑮𐑨𐑐𐑷𐑤, 𐑹 𐑛𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑯𐑷𐑑, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑐𐑮𐑰𐑝𐑾𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑳𐑙 𐑪𐑯 𐑩 𐑗𐑺, 𐑣𐑰 𐑓𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑪𐑒𐑩𐑑𐑕, 𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑛𐑿𐑕𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑧𐑙𐑔 𐑩 𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑾𐑕 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑛 𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑡 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑗 𐑪𐑯 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑚𐑨𐑒, 𐑯 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑞 𐑒𐑳𐑤𐑼 𐑝 𐑩 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑛𐑱𐑟' 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑒𐑪𐑙𐑜𐑴 𐑚𐑱𐑚𐑦. 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑧𐑥𐑚𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑦𐑥𐑚𐑭𐑥𐑛 𐑣𐑧𐑛, 𐑨𐑑 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑲 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑔𐑷𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒 𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑒𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑮𐑾𐑤 𐑚𐑱𐑚𐑦 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑻𐑝𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑤𐑼 𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑼. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑤𐑦𐑥𐑚𐑼, 𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑜𐑤𐑦𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑩 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑛𐑰𐑤 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑐𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑖𐑑 𐑧𐑚𐑩𐑯𐑦, 𐑲 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑵𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑯𐑳𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 𐑢𐑫𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑲𐑛𐑩𐑤, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑰𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑵𐑝𐑛 𐑑 𐑚𐑰. 𐑓 𐑯𐑬 𐑞 𐑕𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑡 𐑜𐑴𐑟 𐑳𐑐 𐑑 𐑞 𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑑𐑦 𐑓𐑲𐑼-𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕, 𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑵𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑐𐑱𐑐𐑼𐑛 𐑓𐑲𐑼-𐑚𐑹𐑛, 𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑕 𐑳𐑐 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑗-𐑚𐑨𐑒𐑑 𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑡, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑐𐑦𐑯, 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑢𐑰𐑯 𐑞 𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑲𐑼𐑯𐑟. 𐑞 𐑗𐑦𐑥𐑯𐑦 𐑡𐑨𐑥𐑟 𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑚𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑕 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑢𐑻 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑕𐑫𐑑𐑦, 𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑲 𐑔𐑷𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑓𐑲𐑼-𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑩 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑩𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑐𐑮𐑾𐑑 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑖𐑮𐑲𐑯 𐑹 𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑩𐑤 𐑓 𐑣𐑦𐑟 ·𐑒𐑪𐑙𐑜𐑴 𐑲𐑛𐑩𐑤.</p>
    <p>𐑲 𐑯𐑬 𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑛 𐑥𐑲 𐑲𐑟 𐑣𐑸𐑛 𐑑𐑩𐑢𐑹𐑛𐑟 𐑞 𐑣𐑭𐑓 𐑣𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑡, 𐑓𐑰𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑤 𐑨𐑑 𐑰𐑟 𐑥𐑰𐑯𐑑𐑲𐑥—𐑑 𐑕𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑 𐑑 𐑓𐑪𐑤𐑴. 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑕 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑩 𐑛𐑳𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑓𐑫𐑤 𐑝 𐑖𐑱𐑝𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 ·𐑜𐑮𐑧𐑜𐑴 𐑐𐑪𐑒𐑩𐑑, 𐑯 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑒𐑺𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑞 𐑲𐑛𐑩𐑤; 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑤𐑱𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑚𐑦𐑑 𐑝 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑚𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑦𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑑𐑪𐑐 𐑯 𐑩𐑐𐑤𐑲𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑓𐑤𐑱𐑥 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑤𐑨𐑥𐑐, 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑞 𐑖𐑱𐑝𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑩 𐑕𐑨𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑤 𐑚𐑤𐑱𐑟. 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦, 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑣𐑱𐑕𐑑𐑦 𐑕𐑯𐑨𐑗𐑩𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑓𐑲𐑼, 𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑣𐑱𐑕𐑑𐑽 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑛𐑮𐑷𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑼𐑟 (𐑢𐑺𐑚𐑲 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑕𐑒𐑹𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑚𐑨𐑛𐑤𐑦), 𐑣𐑰 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑩𐑒𐑕𐑰𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑛𐑮𐑷𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑦𐑑; 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑚𐑤𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑓 𐑞 𐑣𐑰𐑑 𐑯 𐑨𐑖𐑩𐑟 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤, 𐑣𐑰 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑩 𐑐𐑩𐑤𐑲𐑑 𐑪𐑓𐑼 𐑝 𐑦𐑑 𐑑 𐑞 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑯𐑰𐑜𐑮𐑴. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑛𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥 𐑑 𐑓𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑦 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑛𐑮𐑲 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑓𐑺 𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤; 𐑣𐑰 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑥𐑵𐑝𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑦𐑐𐑕. 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡 𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑕 𐑢𐑻 𐑩𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑼 𐑜𐑳𐑑𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑯𐑶𐑟𐑩𐑟 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑑𐑰, 𐑣𐑵 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑐𐑮𐑱𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑕𐑦𐑙-𐑕𐑪𐑙 𐑹 𐑧𐑤𐑕 𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑐𐑱𐑜𐑩𐑯 𐑕𐑭𐑥𐑩𐑛𐑦 𐑹 𐑳𐑞𐑼, 𐑛𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑱𐑕 𐑑𐑢𐑦𐑗𐑑 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑳𐑯𐑯𐑨𐑗𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑼. 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑢𐑦𐑖𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑓𐑲𐑼, 𐑣𐑰 𐑑𐑫𐑒 𐑞 𐑲𐑛𐑩𐑤 𐑳𐑐 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑳𐑯𐑕𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑾𐑕𐑤𐑦, 𐑯 𐑚𐑨𐑜𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 ·𐑜𐑮𐑧𐑜𐑴 𐑐𐑪𐑒𐑩𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑒𐑺𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑓 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑻 𐑩 𐑕𐑐𐑹𐑑𐑕𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑚𐑨𐑜𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑛𐑧𐑛 𐑢𐑫𐑛𐑒𐑪𐑒.</p>
    <p>𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑒𐑢𐑽 𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑕𐑰𐑛𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑲 𐑳𐑯𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑓𐑼𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑯𐑩𐑕, 𐑯 𐑕𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑯𐑬 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑦𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑪𐑙 𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑑𐑩𐑥𐑟 𐑝 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑵𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑦𐑟𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑪𐑐𐑼𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟, 𐑯 𐑡𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑚𐑧𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑥𐑰, 𐑲 𐑔𐑷𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑣𐑲 𐑑𐑲𐑥, 𐑯𐑬 𐑹 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼, 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑞 𐑤𐑲𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑐𐑫𐑑 𐑬𐑑, 𐑑 𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑒 𐑞 𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑕𐑴 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑚𐑬𐑯𐑛.</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑝𐑩𐑤 𐑲 𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑚𐑼𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑑 𐑕𐑱, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑓𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑳𐑯. 𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑐 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑣𐑷𐑒 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑑𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤, 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑨𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑝 𐑦𐑑 𐑓 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑, 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑑 𐑑 𐑞 𐑤𐑲𐑑, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑬𐑔 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑤, 𐑣𐑰 𐑐𐑳𐑓𐑑 𐑬𐑑 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑒𐑤𐑬𐑛𐑟 𐑝 𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑨𐑒𐑴 𐑕𐑥𐑴𐑒. 𐑞 𐑯𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑞 𐑤𐑲𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑢𐑦𐑖𐑑, 𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑲𐑤𐑛 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑚𐑩𐑤, 𐑑𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑣𐑷𐑒 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑢𐑰𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑰𐑔, 𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑨𐑙 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑚𐑧𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑥𐑰. 𐑲 𐑕𐑨𐑙 𐑬𐑑, 𐑲 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑐 𐑦𐑑 𐑯𐑬; 𐑯 𐑜𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑕𐑳𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑜𐑮𐑳𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑩𐑕𐑑𐑪𐑯𐑦𐑖𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑨𐑯 𐑓𐑰𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑰.</p>
    <p>𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑥𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑔𐑦𐑙, 𐑲 𐑯𐑿 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑑, 𐑲 𐑮𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑩𐑢𐑱 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑷𐑤, 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑒𐑳𐑯𐑡𐑼𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑣𐑵𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑹 𐑢𐑪𐑑𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑣𐑰 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑚𐑰, 𐑑 𐑒𐑰𐑐 𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑩𐑑, 𐑯 𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑥𐑰 𐑜𐑧𐑑 𐑳𐑐 𐑯 𐑤𐑲𐑑 𐑞 𐑤𐑨𐑥𐑐 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑜𐑳𐑑𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑕𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑕𐑓𐑲𐑛 𐑥𐑰 𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑤 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑣𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑥𐑲 𐑥𐑰𐑯𐑦𐑙.</p>
    <p>“𐑣𐑵-𐑰 𐑛𐑰𐑚𐑧𐑤 𐑿?”—𐑣𐑰 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑧𐑛—“𐑿 𐑯𐑴 𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑒-𐑰, 𐑛𐑨𐑥-𐑥𐑰, 𐑲 𐑒𐑦𐑤-𐑰.” 𐑯 𐑕𐑴 𐑕𐑱𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑑𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑣𐑷𐑒 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑨𐑯 𐑓𐑤𐑳𐑮𐑦𐑖𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑥𐑰 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑛𐑸𐑒.</p>
    <p>“𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑹𐑛, 𐑓 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛'𐑟 𐑕𐑱𐑒, ·𐑐𐑰𐑑𐑼 ·𐑒𐑪𐑓𐑦𐑯!” 𐑖𐑬𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑲. “𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑹𐑛! 𐑢𐑪𐑗! 𐑒𐑪𐑓𐑦𐑯! 𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑩𐑤𐑟! 𐑕𐑱𐑝 𐑥𐑰!”</p>
    <p>“𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑒-𐑰! 𐑑𐑧𐑤-ee 𐑥𐑰 𐑣𐑵-ee 𐑚𐑰, 𐑹 𐑛𐑨𐑥-𐑥𐑰, 𐑲 𐑒𐑦𐑤-𐑰!” 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯 𐑜𐑮𐑬𐑤𐑛 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑚𐑩𐑤, 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑛 𐑓𐑤𐑳𐑮𐑦𐑖𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑑𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑣𐑷𐑒 𐑕𐑒𐑨𐑑𐑼𐑛 𐑞 𐑣𐑪𐑑 𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑨𐑒𐑴 𐑨𐑖𐑩𐑟 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑥𐑰 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑲 𐑔𐑷𐑑 𐑥𐑲 𐑤𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑜𐑧𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑓𐑲𐑼. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑔𐑨𐑙𐑒 𐑣𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯, 𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑞 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑹𐑛 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑮𐑵𐑥 𐑤𐑲𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛, 𐑯 𐑤𐑰𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑚𐑧𐑛 𐑲 𐑮𐑨𐑯 𐑳𐑐 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥.</p>
    <p>“𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑩𐑓𐑮𐑱𐑛 𐑯𐑬,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑣𐑰, 𐑜𐑮𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯, “·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜 𐑣𐑽 𐑢𐑫𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑣𐑸𐑥 𐑩 𐑣𐑺 𐑝 𐑘𐑹 𐑣𐑧𐑛.”</p>
    <p>“𐑕𐑑𐑪𐑐 𐑘𐑹 𐑜𐑮𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑙,” 𐑖𐑬𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑲, “𐑯 𐑢𐑲 𐑛𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑿 𐑑𐑧𐑤 𐑥𐑰 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑻𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑚𐑩𐑤?”</p>
    <p>“𐑲 𐑔𐑷𐑑 𐑘𐑰 𐑯𐑴'𐑛 𐑦𐑑;—𐑛𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑲 𐑑𐑧𐑤 𐑘𐑰, 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑐𐑧𐑛𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑯' 𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑟 𐑼𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑑𐑬𐑯?—𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑑𐑻𐑯 𐑓𐑤𐑵𐑒𐑕 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯 𐑯 𐑜𐑴 𐑑 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐. ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜, 𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑣𐑽—𐑿 𐑕𐑨𐑚𐑰 𐑥𐑰, 𐑲 𐑕𐑨𐑚𐑰—𐑿 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐 𐑿—𐑿 𐑕𐑨𐑚𐑰?”</p>
    <p>“𐑥𐑰 𐑕𐑨𐑚𐑰 𐑐𐑤𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑦”—𐑜𐑮𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜, 𐑐𐑳𐑓𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑢𐑱 𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑲𐑐 𐑯 𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑐 𐑦𐑯 𐑚𐑧𐑛.</p>
    <p>“𐑿 𐑜𐑧𐑑𐑰 𐑦𐑯,” 𐑣𐑰 𐑨𐑛𐑩𐑛, 𐑥𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑥𐑰 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑣𐑷𐑒, 𐑯 𐑔𐑮𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑒𐑤𐑴𐑞𐑟 𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑕𐑲𐑛. 𐑣𐑰 𐑮𐑾𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑩 𐑕𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑤 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 𐑮𐑾𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑯 𐑗𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑱. 𐑲 𐑕𐑑𐑫𐑛 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑩 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑. 𐑓 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑩𐑑𐑵𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑩 𐑒𐑤𐑰𐑯, 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑚𐑩𐑤. 𐑢𐑪𐑑'𐑕 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑓𐑳𐑕 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑥𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑, 𐑔𐑷𐑑 𐑲 𐑑 𐑥𐑲𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓—𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑯'𐑟 𐑩 𐑣𐑿𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑲 𐑨𐑥: 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑮𐑰𐑟𐑩𐑯 𐑑 𐑓𐑽 𐑥𐑰, 𐑨𐑟 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑓 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑩𐑓𐑮𐑱𐑛 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑥. 𐑚𐑧𐑑𐑼 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑕𐑴𐑚𐑼 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑩 𐑛𐑮𐑳𐑙𐑒𐑩𐑯 ·𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑗𐑩𐑯.</p>
    <p>“𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑹𐑛,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑲, “𐑑𐑧𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑖 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑣𐑷𐑒 𐑞𐑺, 𐑹 𐑐𐑲𐑐, 𐑹 𐑢𐑪𐑑𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑿 𐑒𐑷𐑤 𐑦𐑑; 𐑑𐑧𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑪𐑐 𐑕𐑥𐑴𐑒𐑦𐑙, 𐑦𐑯 𐑖𐑹𐑑, 𐑯 𐑲 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑑𐑻𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑥. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑲 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑓𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑦 𐑣𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑕𐑥𐑴𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑚𐑧𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑥𐑰. 𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑛𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑼𐑩𐑕. 𐑚𐑦𐑕𐑲𐑛𐑟, 𐑲 𐑱𐑯𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑖𐑫𐑼𐑛.”</p>
    <p>𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑑𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑑 ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜, 𐑣𐑰 𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑲𐑛, 𐑯 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯 𐑐𐑩𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑥𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑥𐑰 𐑑 𐑜𐑧𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑚𐑧𐑛—𐑮𐑴𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑨𐑟 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑨𐑟 𐑑 𐑕𐑱—“𐑲 𐑢𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑑𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑤𐑧𐑜 𐑝 𐑘𐑰.”</p>
    <p>“𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑯𐑲𐑑, 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑹𐑛,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑲, “𐑿 𐑥𐑱 𐑜𐑴.”</p>
    <p>𐑲 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯, 𐑯 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑕𐑤𐑧𐑐𐑑 𐑚𐑧𐑑𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑲 𐑤𐑲𐑓.</p>
  </body>
</html>
