<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Chapter 65</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="chapter-65" xml:lang="en-US">
      <h2 id="chapterheader-65">·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 65. 𐑞 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑨𐑟 𐑩 ·𐑛𐑦𐑖.</h2>
    </div>
    <p>𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑹𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑓𐑰𐑛 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑗𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑓𐑰𐑛𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑨𐑥𐑐, 𐑯, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚, 𐑰𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑚𐑲 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯 𐑤𐑲𐑑, 𐑨𐑟 𐑿 𐑥𐑱 𐑕𐑱; 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑟 𐑕𐑴 𐑬𐑑𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑖 𐑩 𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑯𐑰𐑛𐑟 𐑜𐑴 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑯 𐑓𐑦𐑤𐑪𐑕𐑩𐑓𐑦 𐑝 𐑦𐑑.</p>
    <p>𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑹𐑛, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑗𐑼𐑦𐑟 𐑩𐑜𐑴 𐑞 𐑑𐑳𐑙 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑮𐑲𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑩 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑛𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑕𐑦 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑓𐑮𐑭𐑯𐑕, 𐑯 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑤𐑸𐑡 𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑞𐑺. 𐑷𐑤𐑕𐑴, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑣𐑧𐑯𐑮𐑦 VIIIth's 𐑑𐑲𐑥, 𐑩 𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑒𐑫𐑒 𐑝 𐑞 𐑒𐑹𐑑 𐑩𐑚𐑑𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑩 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑕𐑩𐑥 𐑮𐑦𐑢𐑹𐑛 𐑓 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑯 𐑨𐑛𐑥𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑷𐑕 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑰𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑚𐑸𐑚𐑩𐑒𐑘𐑵𐑛 𐑐𐑹𐑐𐑩𐑕𐑩𐑟, 𐑢𐑦𐑗, 𐑿 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑧𐑥𐑚𐑼, 𐑸 𐑩 𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑖𐑰𐑟 𐑝 𐑢𐑱𐑤. 𐑐𐑹𐑐𐑩𐑕𐑩𐑟, 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑰𐑛, 𐑸 𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑛𐑱 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑼𐑛 𐑓𐑲𐑯 𐑰𐑑𐑦𐑙. 𐑞 𐑥𐑰𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑚𐑷𐑤𐑟 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑲𐑟 𐑝 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑘𐑼𐑛 𐑚𐑷𐑤𐑟, 𐑯 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑕𐑰𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑯 𐑕𐑐𐑲𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑓 𐑑𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑤-𐑚𐑷𐑤𐑟 𐑹 𐑝𐑰𐑤 𐑚𐑷𐑤𐑟. 𐑞 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑥𐑳𐑙𐑒𐑕 𐑝 ·𐑛𐑳𐑯𐑓𐑻𐑥𐑤𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑻 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑓𐑪𐑯𐑛 𐑝 𐑞𐑧𐑥. 𐑞𐑱 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑩 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑐𐑹𐑐𐑩𐑕 𐑜𐑮𐑭𐑯𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑬𐑯.</p>
    <p>𐑞 𐑓𐑨𐑒𐑑 𐑦𐑟, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑰𐑕𐑑, 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑚𐑰 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑼𐑛 𐑩 𐑯𐑴𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑛𐑦𐑖, 𐑢𐑻 𐑞𐑺 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑴 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑥; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑿 𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑑 𐑕𐑦𐑑 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑩 𐑥𐑰𐑑-𐑐𐑲 𐑯𐑽𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑛 𐑓𐑰𐑑 𐑤𐑪𐑙, 𐑦𐑑 𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑕 𐑩𐑢𐑱 𐑘𐑹 𐑨𐑐𐑩𐑑𐑲𐑑. 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑳𐑯𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑡𐑩𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑤𐑲𐑒 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚, 𐑯𐑬𐑩𐑛𐑱𐑟 𐑐𐑸𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑝 𐑒𐑫𐑒𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑧𐑕𐑒𐑦𐑥𐑴 𐑸 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑴 𐑓𐑩𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑛𐑾𐑕. 𐑢𐑰 𐑷𐑤 𐑯𐑴 𐑣𐑬 𐑞𐑱 𐑤𐑦𐑝 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟, 𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑮𐑺 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑝𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑟 𐑝 𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑥 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯 𐑶𐑤. ·𐑟𐑪𐑜𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩, 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞𐑺 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑓𐑱𐑥𐑩𐑕 𐑛𐑪𐑒𐑑𐑼𐑟, 𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑕 𐑝 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑚𐑼 𐑓 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕, 𐑨𐑟 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑰𐑛𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑡𐑵𐑕𐑦 𐑯 𐑯𐑳𐑮𐑦𐑖𐑦𐑙. 𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑥𐑰 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯 ·𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑤𐑦𐑖𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑣𐑵 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑩𐑜𐑴 𐑢𐑻 𐑨𐑒𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑧𐑓𐑑 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑯𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑝𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑤—𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑨𐑒𐑗𐑵𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑛 𐑓 𐑕𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑥𐑳𐑯𐑔𐑕 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑦 𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑨𐑐𐑕 𐑝 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑤𐑧𐑓𐑑 𐑩𐑖𐑹 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑚𐑼. 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑞 ·𐑛𐑳𐑗 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑨𐑐𐑕 𐑸 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛 “𐑓𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑼𐑟”; 𐑢𐑦𐑗, 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑰𐑛, 𐑞𐑱 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑧𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤, 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑮𐑬𐑯 𐑯 𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑐, 𐑯 𐑕𐑥𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑨𐑥𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑛𐑨𐑥 𐑣𐑬𐑕𐑢𐑲𐑝𐑟' 𐑛𐑴-𐑯𐑳𐑑𐑕 𐑹 𐑴𐑤𐑦-𐑒𐑫𐑒𐑕, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑖. 𐑞𐑱 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩𐑯 𐑰𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓-𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑲𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑼 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑣𐑸𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑰𐑐 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑪𐑓.</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑓𐑻𐑞𐑼 𐑛𐑦𐑐𐑮𐑰𐑖𐑦𐑱𐑑𐑕 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑕𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑤𐑲𐑟𐑛 𐑛𐑦𐑖, 𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑰𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑮𐑦𐑗𐑯𐑩𐑕. 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑟 𐑪𐑒𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑰, 𐑑𐑵 𐑓𐑨𐑑 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑛𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑜𐑫𐑛. 𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑳𐑥𐑐, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑚𐑰 𐑨𐑟 𐑓𐑲𐑯 𐑰𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑚𐑳𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑴'𐑟 (𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑩 𐑮𐑺 𐑛𐑦𐑖), 𐑢𐑻 𐑦𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑕𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑛 𐑐𐑦𐑮𐑩𐑥𐑦𐑛 𐑝 𐑓𐑨𐑑. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥𐑩𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑦 𐑦𐑑𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓, 𐑣𐑬 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑯 𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑥𐑦 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑟; 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑐𐑨𐑮𐑩𐑯𐑑, 𐑣𐑭𐑓-𐑡𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑛, 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑥𐑰𐑑 𐑝 𐑩 𐑒𐑴𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑔𐑻𐑛 𐑥𐑳𐑯𐑔 𐑝 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑜𐑮𐑴𐑔, 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑓𐑸 𐑑𐑵 𐑮𐑦𐑗 𐑑 𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑤𐑲 𐑩 𐑕𐑳𐑚𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑑 𐑓 𐑚𐑳𐑑𐑼. 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑞𐑩𐑤𐑧𐑕, 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑩 𐑥𐑧𐑔𐑩𐑛 𐑝 𐑩𐑚𐑕𐑹𐑚𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑕𐑳𐑚𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕, 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑐𐑸𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑦𐑑. 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑑𐑮𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑗𐑩𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑯𐑲𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑩 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑓 𐑞 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑐 𐑞𐑺 𐑖𐑦𐑐-𐑚𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑣𐑿𐑡 𐑶𐑤-𐑐𐑪𐑑𐑕 𐑯 𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑓𐑮𐑲 𐑞𐑺 𐑩𐑢𐑲𐑤. 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑩 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑕𐑳𐑐𐑼 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑲 𐑞𐑳𐑕 𐑥𐑱𐑛.</p>
    <p>𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑱𐑕 𐑝 𐑩 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤 ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑞 𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑟 𐑸 𐑩𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑩 𐑓𐑲𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑖. 𐑞 𐑒𐑭𐑕𐑒𐑩𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑒𐑳𐑤 𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑮𐑴𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩𐑯 𐑨𐑒𐑕, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑑𐑵 𐑐𐑤𐑳𐑥𐑐, 𐑢𐑲𐑑𐑦𐑖 𐑤𐑴𐑚𐑟 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑛𐑮𐑷𐑯 (𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑲𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑧𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑑𐑵 𐑤𐑸𐑡 𐑐𐑫𐑛𐑦𐑙𐑟), 𐑞𐑱 𐑸 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑥𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑓𐑤𐑬𐑼, 𐑯 𐑒𐑫𐑒𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑩 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑥𐑧𐑕, 𐑦𐑯 𐑓𐑤𐑱𐑝𐑼 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑧𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑭𐑝𐑟' 𐑣𐑧𐑛, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑩 𐑛𐑦𐑖 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑧𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑟; 𐑯 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑯𐑴𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑘𐑳𐑙 𐑚𐑳𐑒𐑕 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑞 𐑧𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑟, 𐑚𐑲 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑿𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑲𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑒𐑭𐑝𐑟' 𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑟, 𐑚𐑲 𐑯 𐑚𐑲 𐑜𐑧𐑑 𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑞𐑺 𐑴𐑯, 𐑕𐑴 𐑨𐑟 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑑 𐑑𐑧𐑤 𐑩 𐑒𐑭𐑓'𐑕 𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞𐑺 𐑴𐑯 𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑟; 𐑢𐑦𐑗, 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑰𐑛, 𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑼𐑟 𐑳𐑯𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯. 𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑮𐑰𐑟𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑲 𐑩 𐑘𐑳𐑙 𐑚𐑳𐑒 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑭𐑓'𐑕 𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑣𐑬 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑨𐑛𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑲𐑑𐑕 𐑿 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑕𐑰. 𐑞 𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑕 𐑩 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑗𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩𐑯 “𐑧𐑑 𐑑𐑵 ·𐑚𐑮𐑵𐑑!” 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑯.</p>
    <p>𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑, 𐑐𐑼𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑕, 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑲𐑼𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑴 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑧𐑕𐑦𐑝𐑤𐑦 𐑳𐑙𐑒𐑗𐑵𐑩𐑕 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑕𐑰𐑥 𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑸𐑛 𐑞 𐑰𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩𐑚𐑣𐑹𐑩𐑯𐑕; 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑩𐑐𐑽𐑟 𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑳𐑤𐑑, 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑢𐑱, 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑼𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑛: <i>𐑲𐑰</i> 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑩 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑰𐑑 𐑩 𐑯𐑿𐑤𐑦 𐑥𐑻𐑛𐑼𐑛 𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑰, 𐑯 𐑰𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑑𐑵 𐑚𐑲 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑴𐑯 𐑤𐑲𐑑. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑯𐑴 𐑛𐑬𐑑 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑥𐑻𐑛𐑼𐑛 𐑩𐑯 𐑪𐑒𐑕 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑸𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑥𐑻𐑛𐑼𐑼; 𐑐𐑼𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑕 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑣𐑳𐑙; 𐑯 𐑦𐑓 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑐𐑫𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑩𐑤 𐑚𐑲 𐑪𐑒𐑕𐑩𐑯, 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯; 𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑟𐑻𐑝𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑓 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑥𐑻𐑛𐑼𐑼 𐑛𐑳𐑟. 𐑜𐑴 𐑑 𐑞 𐑥𐑰𐑑-𐑥𐑸𐑒𐑩𐑑 𐑝 𐑩 𐑕𐑨𐑑𐑼𐑛𐑱 𐑯𐑲𐑑 𐑯 𐑕𐑰 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑬𐑛𐑟 𐑝 𐑤𐑲𐑝 𐑚𐑲𐑐𐑧𐑛𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑺𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑐 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑮𐑴𐑟 𐑝 𐑛𐑧𐑛 𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑐𐑧𐑛𐑟. 𐑛𐑳𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑲𐑑 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑩 𐑑𐑵𐑔 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑚𐑩𐑤'𐑟 𐑡𐑷? 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑟? 𐑣𐑵 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑩 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑚𐑩𐑤? 𐑲 𐑑𐑧𐑤 𐑿 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑚𐑰 𐑥𐑹 𐑑𐑪𐑤𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑓 𐑞 ·𐑝𐑧𐑡𐑰 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑷𐑤𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑩 𐑤𐑰𐑯 𐑥𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑼𐑦 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑼 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑩 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑨𐑥𐑦𐑯; 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑚𐑰 𐑥𐑹 𐑑𐑪𐑤𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑓 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑝𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑 ·𐑝𐑧𐑡𐑰, 𐑲 𐑕𐑱, 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑛𐑱 𐑝 𐑡𐑳𐑡𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑, 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑓 𐑞𐑰, 𐑕𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑤𐑲𐑟𐑛 𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑜𐑫𐑼𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑛, 𐑣𐑵 𐑯𐑱𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑜𐑰𐑕 𐑑 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑯 𐑓𐑰𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑚𐑤𐑴𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑼𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑲 𐑐𐑨𐑑𐑱-𐑛𐑩-𐑓𐑢𐑭-𐑜𐑮𐑭.</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑳𐑑 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚, 𐑣𐑰 𐑰𐑑𐑕 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑚𐑲 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑴𐑯 𐑤𐑲𐑑, 𐑛𐑳𐑟 𐑣𐑰? 𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑨𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑳𐑤𐑑 𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑡𐑼𐑦, 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑑? 𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑨𐑑 𐑘𐑹 𐑯𐑲𐑓-𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑤, 𐑞𐑺, 𐑥𐑲 𐑕𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑤𐑲𐑟𐑛 𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑜𐑫𐑼𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑛 𐑛𐑲𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑓 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑮𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑰𐑓, 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑤 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑝?—𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑮𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑝 𐑞 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑪𐑒𐑕 𐑿 𐑸 𐑰𐑑𐑦𐑙? 𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑛𐑵 𐑿 𐑐𐑦𐑒 𐑘𐑹 𐑑𐑰𐑔 𐑢𐑦𐑞, 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑛𐑦𐑝𐑬𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑓𐑨𐑑 𐑜𐑵𐑕? 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑓𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑓𐑬𐑤. 𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑧𐑒𐑮𐑩𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑩𐑕𐑲𐑩𐑑𐑦 𐑓 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 ·𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑩𐑤𐑑𐑦 𐑑 ·𐑜𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑟 𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑲𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑼𐑟? 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑳𐑯𐑔 𐑹 𐑑𐑵 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑩𐑕𐑲𐑩𐑑𐑦 𐑐𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑩 𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑤𐑵𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑑 𐑐𐑨𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑯𐑲𐑟 𐑯𐑳𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤 𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑟.</p>
  </body>
</html>
