<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Chapter 126</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="chapter-126" xml:lang="en-US">
      <h2 id="chapterheader-126">·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 126. 𐑞 ·𐑤𐑲𐑓-·𐑚𐑶.</h2>
    </div>
    <p>𐑕𐑑𐑽𐑦𐑙 𐑯𐑬 𐑕𐑬𐑔-𐑰𐑕𐑑𐑢𐑼𐑛 𐑚𐑲 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚'𐑟 𐑤𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤, 𐑯 𐑣𐑻 𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑜𐑮𐑧𐑕 𐑕𐑴𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑑𐑻𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑛 𐑚𐑲 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚'𐑟 𐑤𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤 𐑤𐑪𐑜 𐑯 𐑤𐑲𐑯; 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑛 𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑻 𐑐𐑭𐑔 𐑑𐑩𐑢𐑹𐑛𐑟 𐑞 ·𐑦𐑒𐑢𐑱𐑑𐑼. 𐑥𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑴 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑩 𐑐𐑨𐑕𐑦𐑡 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑳𐑯𐑓𐑮𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼𐑟, 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑦𐑙 𐑯𐑴 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑕, 𐑯 𐑺 𐑤𐑪𐑙, 𐑕𐑲𐑛𐑢𐑱𐑟 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑧𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑳𐑯𐑝𐑺𐑦𐑦𐑙 𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑟, 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑢𐑱𐑝𐑟 𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑥𐑲𐑤𐑛; 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡 𐑒𐑭𐑥 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑤𐑿𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑮𐑲𐑩𐑑𐑩𐑕 𐑯 𐑛𐑧𐑕𐑐𐑼𐑩𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑯.</p>
    <p>𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑛𐑮𐑵 𐑯𐑽 𐑑 𐑞 𐑬𐑑𐑕𐑒𐑻𐑑𐑕, 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑻, 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑧𐑒𐑢𐑩𐑑𐑹𐑾𐑤 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑦𐑙-𐑜𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛, 𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑛𐑰𐑐 𐑛𐑸𐑒𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑜𐑴𐑟 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑞 𐑛𐑷𐑯, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑲 𐑩 𐑒𐑤𐑳𐑕𐑑𐑼 𐑝 𐑮𐑪𐑒𐑦 𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑑𐑕; 𐑞 𐑢𐑪𐑗—𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 ·𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒—𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑩 𐑒𐑮𐑲 𐑕𐑴 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑝𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑲𐑤𐑛 𐑯 𐑳𐑯𐑻𐑔𐑤𐑦—𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑣𐑭𐑓-𐑸𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑜𐑴𐑕𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 ·𐑣𐑧𐑮𐑩𐑛'𐑟 𐑥𐑻𐑛𐑼𐑛 ·𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕—𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑯 𐑷𐑤, 𐑞𐑱 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞𐑺 𐑮𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑦𐑟, 𐑯 𐑓 𐑞 𐑕𐑐𐑱𐑕 𐑝 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑕𐑑𐑫𐑛, 𐑹 𐑕𐑨𐑑, 𐑹 𐑤𐑰𐑯𐑛 𐑷𐑤 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑓𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑩𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑦𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑙, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞 𐑒𐑸𐑝𐑛 ·𐑮𐑴𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑕𐑤𐑱𐑝, 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑲𐑤𐑛 𐑒𐑮𐑲 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑽𐑦𐑙. 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑗𐑩𐑯 𐑹 𐑕𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑤𐑲𐑟𐑛 𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑵 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑥𐑻𐑥𐑱𐑛𐑟, 𐑯 𐑖𐑳𐑛𐑼𐑛; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑐𐑱𐑜𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽𐑟 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑳𐑯𐑩𐑐𐑷𐑤𐑛. 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱 ·𐑥𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑕𐑥𐑩𐑯—𐑞 𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑯𐑼 𐑝 𐑷𐑤—𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑺𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑲𐑤𐑛 𐑔𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑻 𐑣𐑻𐑛, 𐑢𐑻 𐑞 𐑝𐑶𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑝 𐑯𐑿𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑰.</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑴 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑥𐑩𐑒, ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑣𐑽 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑜𐑮𐑱 𐑛𐑷𐑯, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑑 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑒; 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑚𐑲 ·𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒, 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑳𐑯𐑩𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑛𐑸𐑒 𐑥𐑰𐑯𐑦𐑙𐑟. 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑪𐑤𐑴𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑭𐑓𐑑, 𐑯 𐑞𐑳𐑕 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼.</p>
    <p>𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑮𐑪𐑒𐑦 𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑐𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑻 𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑯𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑼𐑟 𐑝 𐑕𐑰𐑤𐑟, 𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑘𐑳𐑙 𐑕𐑰𐑤𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑤𐑪𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑛𐑨𐑥𐑟, 𐑹 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑛𐑨𐑥𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑤𐑪𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑒𐑳𐑚𐑟, 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑩𐑯 𐑯𐑲 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑯 𐑒𐑧𐑐𐑑 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑦 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑻, 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑦𐑙 𐑯 𐑕𐑪𐑚𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑺 𐑣𐑿𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑢𐑱𐑤. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑞 𐑥𐑹 𐑩𐑓𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑝 𐑞𐑧𐑥, 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑪𐑟 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑯𐑼𐑟 𐑗𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑖 𐑩 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑕𐑵𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑕 𐑓𐑰𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑤𐑟, 𐑼𐑲𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞𐑺 𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑽 𐑑𐑴𐑯𐑟 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑕, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑷𐑤𐑕𐑴 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑣𐑿𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑝 𐑞𐑺 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑟 𐑯 𐑕𐑧𐑥𐑦-𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑓𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑟, 𐑕𐑰𐑯 𐑐𐑽𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑳𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙𐑕𐑲𐑛. 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑰, 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟, 𐑕𐑰𐑤𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑥𐑹 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑓 𐑥𐑧𐑯.</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑛𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑵 𐑢𐑻 𐑛𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑰𐑝 𐑩 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑐𐑤𐑷𐑟𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑓𐑼𐑥𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑱𐑑 𐑝 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞𐑺 𐑯𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑹𐑯𐑦𐑙. 𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑯-𐑮𐑲𐑟 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑥𐑩𐑒 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑-𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑓𐑹; 𐑯 𐑢𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑣𐑭𐑓 𐑢𐑱𐑒𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐 (𐑓 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑜𐑴 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑓𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑟𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑑), 𐑢𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞𐑳𐑕 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑯, 𐑞𐑺 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑬 𐑯𐑴 𐑑𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑙; 𐑚𐑳𐑑, 𐑚𐑰 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑥𐑱, 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑻𐑗, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑩 𐑒𐑮𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑣𐑻𐑛—𐑩 𐑒𐑮𐑲 𐑯 𐑩 𐑮𐑳𐑖𐑦𐑙—𐑯 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑐, 𐑞𐑱 𐑕𐑷 𐑩 𐑓𐑷𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑥 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑺; 𐑯 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑛𐑬𐑯, 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑑𐑪𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑰𐑐 𐑝 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑚𐑳𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑤𐑵 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑰.</p>
    <p>𐑞 𐑤𐑲𐑓-𐑚𐑶—𐑩 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑕𐑤𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑒𐑭𐑕𐑒—𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑛𐑮𐑪𐑐𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑻𐑯, 𐑢𐑺 𐑦𐑑 𐑷𐑤𐑢𐑱𐑟 𐑣𐑳𐑙 𐑴𐑚𐑰𐑛𐑾𐑯𐑑 𐑑 𐑩 𐑒𐑳𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑙; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑯𐑴 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑮𐑴𐑟 𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑟 𐑦𐑑, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑚𐑰𐑑 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑒𐑭𐑕𐑒 𐑦𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑖𐑮𐑳𐑙𐑒𐑩𐑯, 𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑤𐑴𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑦𐑤𐑛, 𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑐𐑸𐑗𐑑 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑷𐑤𐑕𐑴 𐑓𐑦𐑤𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑐𐑹; 𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑲𐑼𐑯-𐑚𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑒𐑭𐑕𐑒 𐑓𐑪𐑤𐑴𐑛 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼 𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑥, 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑓 𐑑 𐑘𐑰𐑤𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑦𐑤𐑴, 𐑞𐑴 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑵𐑔 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 𐑣𐑸𐑛 𐑢𐑳𐑯.</p>
    <p>𐑯 𐑞𐑳𐑕 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑞 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑑 𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑬𐑑 𐑓 𐑞 ·𐑢𐑲𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑢𐑲𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤'𐑟 𐑴𐑯 𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑽 𐑜𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛; 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑢𐑪𐑤𐑴𐑛 𐑳𐑐 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑛𐑰𐑐. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑓𐑿, 𐑐𐑼𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑕, 𐑔𐑷𐑑 𐑝 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑑𐑲𐑥. 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑰𐑛, 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑕𐑹𐑑, 𐑞𐑱 𐑢𐑻 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑝𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑦𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑑, 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑰𐑕𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑐𐑹𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑑; 𐑓 𐑞𐑱 𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑸𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑑, 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑓𐑹𐑖𐑨𐑛𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑿𐑗𐑼, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑓𐑫𐑤𐑓𐑦𐑤𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑩𐑯 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑤 𐑷𐑤𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑦 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑱𐑡𐑛. 𐑞𐑱 𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑺𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑯𐑬 𐑞𐑱 𐑯𐑿 𐑞 𐑮𐑰𐑟𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑢𐑲𐑤𐑛 𐑖𐑮𐑰𐑒𐑕 𐑞𐑱 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑣𐑻𐑛 𐑞 𐑯𐑲𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯 𐑞 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑥𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑕𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑯𐑱.</p>
    <p>𐑞 𐑤𐑪𐑕𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑓-𐑚𐑶 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑬 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕𐑑; ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑛𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑑 𐑕𐑰 𐑑 𐑦𐑑; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑯𐑴 𐑒𐑭𐑕𐑒 𐑝 𐑕𐑩𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑚𐑰 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛, 𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑰𐑝𐑼𐑦𐑖 𐑰𐑜𐑼𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑞 𐑩𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑕𐑦𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡, 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑑𐑶𐑤 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑛𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑧𐑯𐑛, 𐑢𐑪𐑑𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑵𐑝 𐑑 𐑚𐑰; 𐑞𐑺𐑓𐑹, 𐑞𐑱 𐑢𐑻 𐑜𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑤𐑰𐑝 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐'𐑕 𐑕𐑑𐑻𐑯 𐑳𐑯𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑚𐑶, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑚𐑲 𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡 𐑕𐑲𐑯𐑟 𐑯 𐑲𐑯𐑿𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑳𐑟 ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜 𐑣𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑩 𐑣𐑦𐑯𐑑 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑪𐑓𐑦𐑯.</p>
    <p>“𐑩 𐑤𐑲𐑓-𐑚𐑶 𐑝 𐑩 𐑒𐑪𐑓𐑦𐑯!” 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒, 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑑𐑦𐑙.</p>
    <p>“𐑮𐑭𐑞𐑼 𐑒𐑢𐑽, 𐑞𐑨𐑑, 𐑲 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑕𐑱,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚.</p>
    <p>“𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑩 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑳𐑓 𐑢𐑳𐑯,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 ·𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒, “𐑞 𐑒𐑸𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑼 𐑣𐑽 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑼𐑱𐑯𐑡 𐑦𐑑 𐑰𐑟𐑦𐑤𐑦.”</p>
    <p>“𐑚𐑮𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑑 𐑳𐑐; 𐑞𐑺'𐑟 𐑯𐑳𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑧𐑤𐑕 𐑓 𐑦𐑑,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒, 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑩 𐑥𐑧𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑒𐑪𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑷𐑟. “𐑮𐑦𐑜 𐑦𐑑, 𐑒𐑸𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑼; 𐑛𐑵 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑰 𐑕𐑴—𐑞 𐑒𐑪𐑓𐑦𐑯, 𐑲 𐑥𐑰𐑯. 𐑛𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑬 𐑣𐑽 𐑥𐑰? 𐑮𐑦𐑜 𐑦𐑑.”</p>
    <p>“𐑯 𐑖𐑨𐑤 𐑲 𐑯𐑱𐑤 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑞 𐑤𐑦𐑛, 𐑕𐑻?” 𐑥𐑵𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑣𐑨𐑥𐑼.</p>
    <p>“𐑲.”</p>
    <p>“𐑯 𐑖𐑨𐑤 𐑲 𐑒𐑷𐑒 𐑞 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑟, 𐑕𐑻?” 𐑥𐑵𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑒𐑷𐑒𐑦𐑙-𐑲𐑼𐑯.</p>
    <p>“𐑲.”</p>
    <p>“𐑯 𐑖𐑨𐑤 𐑲 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑐𐑱 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑐𐑦𐑗, 𐑕𐑻?” 𐑥𐑵𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑐𐑦𐑗-𐑐𐑪𐑑.</p>
    <p>“𐑩𐑢𐑱! 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑐𐑩𐑟𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑞𐑰 𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕? 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑩 𐑤𐑲𐑓-𐑚𐑶 𐑝 𐑞 𐑒𐑪𐑓𐑦𐑯, 𐑯 𐑯𐑴 𐑥𐑹.—·𐑥𐑼 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚, ·𐑥𐑼 ·𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒, 𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑓𐑹𐑢𐑼𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑥𐑰.”</p>
    <p>“𐑣𐑰 𐑜𐑴𐑟 𐑪𐑓 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑣𐑳𐑓. 𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑻; 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑐𐑸𐑑𐑕 𐑣𐑰 𐑚𐑷𐑒𐑕. 𐑯𐑬 𐑲 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞𐑦𐑕. 𐑲 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑩 𐑤𐑧𐑜 𐑓 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚, 𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑺𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑥𐑩𐑯; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑲 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑩 𐑚𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑚𐑪𐑒𐑕 𐑓 ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜, 𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑐𐑫𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑦𐑑. 𐑸 𐑷𐑤 𐑥𐑲 𐑐𐑱𐑯𐑟 𐑑 𐑜𐑴 𐑓 𐑯𐑳𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑒𐑪𐑓𐑦𐑯? 𐑯 𐑯𐑬 𐑲'𐑥 𐑹𐑛𐑼𐑛 𐑑 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑩 𐑤𐑲𐑓-𐑚𐑶 𐑝 𐑦𐑑. 𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑯 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑒𐑴𐑑; 𐑜𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑚𐑮𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑓𐑤𐑧𐑖 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑯𐑬. 𐑲 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑒𐑪𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑚𐑦𐑟𐑯𐑩𐑕—𐑲 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑦𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤; 𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑦𐑓𐑲𐑛; 𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑥𐑲 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕. 𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑑𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑼𐑟' 𐑚𐑮𐑨𐑑𐑕 𐑛𐑵 𐑑𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑼𐑦𐑙𐑟; 𐑢𐑰 𐑸 𐑞𐑺 𐑚𐑧𐑑𐑼𐑟. 𐑲 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑑 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑯𐑳𐑯 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑒𐑤𐑰𐑯, 𐑝𐑻𐑡𐑦𐑯, 𐑓𐑺-𐑯-𐑕𐑒𐑢𐑺 𐑥𐑨𐑔𐑩𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑡𐑪𐑚𐑟, 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑮𐑧𐑜𐑿𐑤𐑼𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑦𐑯𐑟 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑙, 𐑯 𐑦𐑟 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑢𐑱, 𐑯 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑟 𐑑 𐑩𐑯 𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑵𐑠𐑩𐑯; 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑩 𐑒𐑪𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑼'𐑟 𐑡𐑪𐑚, 𐑞𐑨𐑑'𐑕 𐑨𐑑 𐑩𐑯 𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑤, 𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑧𐑯𐑛. 𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑞 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑢𐑫𐑥𐑩𐑯'𐑟 𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑕 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑜𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑪𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑡𐑪𐑚𐑟. 𐑤𐑹𐑛! 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑩𐑯 𐑩𐑓𐑧𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑓 𐑑𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑼𐑟. 𐑲 𐑯𐑴 𐑩𐑯 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑢𐑫𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑦-𐑓𐑲𐑝 𐑣𐑵 𐑮𐑨𐑯 𐑩𐑢𐑱 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑚𐑷𐑤𐑛-𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑘𐑳𐑙 𐑑𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑼 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕. 𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑'𐑕 𐑞 𐑮𐑰𐑟𐑩𐑯 𐑲 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑢𐑻𐑒 𐑓 𐑤𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑦𐑛𐑴 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑯 𐑩𐑖𐑹, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑲 𐑒𐑧𐑐𐑑 𐑥𐑲 𐑡𐑪𐑚-𐑖𐑪𐑐 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑝𐑦𐑯𐑘𐑼𐑛; 𐑞𐑱 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞𐑺 𐑤𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑟 𐑑 𐑮𐑳𐑯 𐑪𐑓 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑥𐑰. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 ·𐑣𐑱-𐑣𐑴! 𐑞𐑺 𐑸 𐑯𐑴 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑕 𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑰 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑯𐑴-𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑕. 𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑥𐑰 𐑕𐑰. 𐑯𐑱𐑤 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑞 𐑤𐑦𐑛; 𐑒𐑷𐑒 𐑞 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑟; 𐑐𐑱 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑐𐑦𐑗; 𐑚𐑨𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑑𐑲𐑑, 𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑙 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑕𐑯𐑨𐑐-𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑙 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐'𐑕 𐑕𐑑𐑻𐑯. 𐑢𐑻 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑛𐑳𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑒𐑪𐑓𐑦𐑯? 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑕𐑵𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑕 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑒𐑸𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑟, 𐑯𐑬, 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑚𐑰 𐑑𐑲𐑛 𐑳𐑐 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑦𐑙, 𐑺 𐑞𐑱 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑛𐑵 𐑞 𐑡𐑪𐑚. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑲'𐑥 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑝 𐑯𐑪𐑑𐑦 ·𐑩𐑮𐑵𐑕𐑑𐑫𐑒 𐑣𐑧𐑥𐑤𐑪𐑒; 𐑲 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑚𐑳𐑡. 𐑒𐑮𐑳𐑐𐑼𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑒𐑪𐑓𐑦𐑯! 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑝-𐑘𐑸𐑛 𐑑𐑮𐑱! 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛. 𐑢𐑰 𐑢𐑻𐑒𐑼𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑫𐑛𐑟 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑚𐑮𐑲𐑛𐑩𐑤-𐑚𐑧𐑛𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑛𐑟 𐑯 𐑒𐑸𐑛-𐑑𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑟, 𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑨𐑟 𐑒𐑪𐑓𐑦𐑯𐑟 𐑯 𐑣𐑻𐑕𐑩𐑟. 𐑢𐑰 𐑢𐑻𐑒 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑥𐑳𐑯𐑔, 𐑹 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑡𐑪𐑚, 𐑹 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑓𐑦𐑑; 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑓 𐑳𐑕 𐑑 𐑭𐑕𐑒 𐑞 𐑢𐑲 𐑯 𐑢𐑺𐑓𐑹 𐑝 𐑬𐑼 𐑢𐑻𐑒, 𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑧𐑕 𐑦𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑑𐑵 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑒𐑪𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙, 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑢𐑰 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑖 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑓 𐑢𐑰 𐑒𐑨𐑯. 𐑣𐑧𐑥! 𐑲'𐑤 𐑛𐑵 𐑞 𐑡𐑪𐑚, 𐑯𐑬, 𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑤𐑦. 𐑲'𐑤 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑥𐑰—𐑤𐑧𐑑'𐑕 𐑕𐑰—𐑣𐑬 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐'𐑕 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑦, 𐑷𐑤 𐑑𐑴𐑤𐑛? 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑲'𐑝 𐑓𐑼𐑜𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑯. 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑢𐑱, 𐑲'𐑤 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑥𐑰 𐑔𐑻𐑑𐑦 𐑕𐑧𐑐𐑼𐑩𐑑, ·𐑑𐑻𐑒'𐑕-𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑤𐑲𐑓-𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑟, 𐑰𐑗 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑓𐑰𐑑 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑣𐑨𐑙𐑦𐑙 𐑷𐑤 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑞 𐑒𐑪𐑓𐑦𐑯. 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑦𐑓 𐑞 𐑣𐑳𐑤 𐑜𐑴 𐑛𐑬𐑯, 𐑞𐑺'𐑤 𐑚𐑰 𐑔𐑻𐑑𐑦 𐑤𐑲𐑝𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑧𐑤𐑴𐑟 𐑷𐑤 𐑓𐑲𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑓 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑒𐑪𐑓𐑦𐑯, 𐑩 𐑕𐑲𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑯 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑪𐑓𐑩𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑯𐑰𐑔 𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑯! 𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑣𐑨𐑥𐑼, 𐑒𐑷𐑒𐑦𐑙-𐑲𐑼𐑯, 𐑐𐑦𐑗-𐑐𐑪𐑑, 𐑯 𐑥𐑸𐑤𐑦𐑙-𐑕𐑐𐑲𐑒! 𐑤𐑧𐑑'𐑕 𐑑 𐑦𐑑.”</p>
  </body>
</html>
