<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Chapter 35</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="chapter-35" xml:lang="en-US">
      <h2 id="chapterheader-35">·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 35. 𐑞 ·𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑-·𐑣𐑧𐑛.</h2>
    </div>
    <p>𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑛𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑥𐑹 𐑐𐑤𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑢𐑧𐑞𐑼, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑛𐑿 𐑮𐑴𐑑𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑥𐑲 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑-𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛.</p>
    <p>𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 ·𐑩𐑥𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑-𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑟 𐑸 𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑤𐑑𐑱𐑯𐑾𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑝𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑤'𐑟 𐑤𐑰𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑻 𐑐𐑹𐑑; 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑞𐑴 𐑖𐑰 𐑥𐑱 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑓𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑰𐑯 𐑔𐑬𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑥𐑲𐑤𐑟, 𐑯 𐑥𐑹, 𐑑 𐑕𐑱𐑤 𐑺 𐑮𐑰𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑻 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑐𐑼 𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑜𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛. 𐑯 𐑦𐑓, 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑩 𐑔𐑮𐑰, 𐑓𐑹, 𐑹 𐑓𐑲𐑝 𐑘𐑽𐑟' 𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡 𐑖𐑰 𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑮𐑷𐑦𐑙 𐑯𐑲 𐑣𐑴𐑥 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑧𐑯𐑦𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑑𐑦 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑻—𐑕𐑱, 𐑩𐑯 𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑑𐑦 𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑤 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯—𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑣𐑻 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑-𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑟 𐑸 𐑒𐑧𐑐𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑞 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑; 𐑯 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑣𐑻 𐑕𐑒𐑲𐑕𐑱𐑤-𐑐𐑴𐑤𐑟 𐑕𐑱𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑞 𐑕𐑐𐑲𐑼𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑐𐑹𐑑, 𐑛𐑳𐑟 𐑖𐑰 𐑷𐑤𐑑𐑩𐑜𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑖 𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑐 𐑝 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑗𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑥𐑹.</p>
    <p>𐑯𐑬, 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑚𐑦𐑟𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑-𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑟, 𐑩𐑖𐑹 𐑹 𐑩𐑓𐑤𐑴𐑑, 𐑦𐑟 𐑩 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑱𐑯𐑗𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑩𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑳𐑯, 𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑳𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑥𐑧𐑠𐑼 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑱𐑖𐑦𐑱𐑑 𐑣𐑽. 𐑲 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑦𐑑, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑻𐑤𐑾𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑟 𐑝 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑-𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑞 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑦𐑡𐑦𐑐𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟; 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑪𐑟, 𐑦𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑥𐑲 𐑮𐑰𐑕𐑻𐑗𐑩𐑟, 𐑲 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑯𐑳𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑼 𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑥. 𐑓 𐑞𐑴 𐑞𐑺 𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑼𐑟, 𐑞 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑼𐑟 𐑝 ·𐑚𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤, 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑛𐑬𐑑𐑤𐑩𐑕, 𐑚𐑲 𐑞𐑺 𐑑𐑬𐑼, 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑑 𐑮𐑽 𐑞 𐑤𐑪𐑓𐑑𐑾𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑-𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑷𐑤 ·𐑱𐑖𐑩, 𐑹 ·𐑨𐑓𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩 𐑲𐑞𐑼; 𐑘𐑧𐑑 (𐑺 𐑞 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑒 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑐𐑫𐑑 𐑑 𐑦𐑑) 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑯 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑞𐑺𐑟 𐑥𐑱 𐑚𐑰 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑜𐑪𐑯 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑚𐑹𐑛, 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑛𐑮𐑧𐑛 𐑜𐑱𐑤 𐑝 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛'𐑟 𐑮𐑪𐑔; 𐑞𐑺𐑓𐑹, 𐑢𐑰 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑜𐑦𐑝 𐑞𐑰𐑟 ·𐑚𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑼𐑟 𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 ·𐑦𐑡𐑦𐑐𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟. 𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑦𐑡𐑦𐑐𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑩 𐑯𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑-𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑟, 𐑦𐑟 𐑩𐑯 𐑩𐑕𐑻𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑚𐑱𐑕𐑑 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑰𐑓 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑸𐑒𐑦𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑡𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑕, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑐𐑦𐑮𐑩𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑓 𐑨𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑯𐑪𐑥𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑐𐑻𐑐𐑩𐑕𐑩𐑟: 𐑩 𐑔𐑽𐑦 𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑿𐑤𐑼𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑹𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑽 𐑕𐑑𐑺-𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑓𐑹 𐑕𐑲𐑛𐑟 𐑝 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑧𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑕𐑩𐑟; 𐑢𐑺𐑚𐑲, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑛𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑕 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑳𐑐𐑤𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑝 𐑞𐑺 𐑤𐑧𐑜𐑟, 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑩𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑪𐑯𐑩𐑥𐑼𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑢𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑑 𐑥𐑬𐑯𐑑 𐑑 𐑞 𐑱𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑕, 𐑯 𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑑 𐑓 𐑯𐑿 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑟; 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑤𐑫𐑒-𐑬𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑩 𐑥𐑪𐑛𐑼𐑯 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑑 𐑓 𐑩 𐑕𐑱𐑤, 𐑹 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑺𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑲𐑑. 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑕𐑱𐑯𐑑 ·𐑕𐑑𐑲𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑕, 𐑞 𐑓𐑱𐑥𐑩𐑕 ·𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑗𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑻𐑥𐑦𐑑 𐑝 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟, 𐑣𐑵 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑩 𐑤𐑪𐑓𐑑𐑦 𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑯 𐑐𐑦𐑤𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑟𐑼𐑑 𐑯 𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑤𐑨𐑑𐑼 𐑐𐑹𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑲𐑓 𐑪𐑯 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑦𐑑, 𐑣𐑶𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑵𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑑𐑨𐑒𐑩𐑤; 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑢𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑩 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑸𐑒𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑝 𐑩 𐑛𐑷𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑼-𐑝-𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑-𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑟; 𐑣𐑵 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑛𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕 𐑚𐑲 𐑓𐑪𐑜𐑟 𐑹 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑕𐑑𐑕, 𐑮𐑱𐑯, 𐑣𐑱𐑤, 𐑹 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑑; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑝𐑨𐑤𐑾𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑱𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑑 𐑑 𐑞 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑, 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑼𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑲𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑴𐑕𐑑. 𐑝 𐑥𐑪𐑛𐑼𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑟-𐑝-𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑-𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑟 𐑢𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 𐑤𐑲𐑓𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑕𐑧𐑑; 𐑥𐑽 𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑯, 𐑲𐑼𐑯, 𐑯 𐑚𐑮𐑪𐑯𐑟 𐑥𐑧𐑯; 𐑣𐑵, 𐑞𐑴 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑒𐑱𐑐𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑓𐑱𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑑 𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑓 𐑜𐑱𐑤, 𐑸 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑲𐑼𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑐𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑦𐑟𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑑 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑳𐑝𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡 𐑕𐑲𐑑. 𐑞𐑺 𐑦𐑟 ·𐑯𐑩𐑐𐑴𐑤𐑾𐑯; 𐑣𐑵, 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑑𐑪𐑐 𐑝 𐑞 𐑒𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑥 𐑝 ·𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑴𐑥, 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑸𐑥𐑟 𐑓𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑩𐑛, 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑛 𐑯 𐑓𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑦 𐑓𐑰𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑺; 𐑒𐑺𐑤𐑩𐑕, 𐑯𐑬, 𐑣𐑵 𐑮𐑵𐑤𐑟 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑒𐑕 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑴; 𐑢𐑧𐑞𐑼 ·𐑤𐑵𐑦 ·𐑓𐑦𐑤𐑰𐑐, ·𐑤𐑵𐑦 ·𐑚𐑤𐑭𐑙𐑒, 𐑹 ·𐑤𐑵𐑦 𐑞 ·𐑛𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤. 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 ·𐑢𐑪𐑖𐑦𐑙𐑑𐑩𐑯, 𐑑𐑵, 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑣𐑲 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑓𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑬𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑱𐑯-𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑚𐑷𐑤𐑑𐑦𐑥𐑹, 𐑯 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 ·𐑣𐑻𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑰𐑟' 𐑐𐑦𐑤𐑼𐑟, 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑥 𐑥𐑸𐑒𐑕 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑿𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑜𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑡𐑼 𐑚𐑦𐑘𐑪𐑯𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑓𐑿 𐑥𐑹𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑜𐑴. 𐑨𐑛𐑥𐑼𐑩𐑤 ·𐑯𐑧𐑤𐑕𐑩𐑯, 𐑷𐑤𐑕𐑴, 𐑪𐑯 𐑩 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑜𐑳𐑯-𐑥𐑧𐑑𐑩𐑤, 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑-𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑓𐑳𐑤𐑜𐑸 ·𐑕𐑒𐑢𐑺; 𐑯 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑩𐑚𐑕𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞𐑨𐑑 ·𐑤𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑕𐑥𐑴𐑒, 𐑑𐑴𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑟 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑜𐑦𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑩 𐑣𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑽𐑴 𐑦𐑟 𐑞𐑺; 𐑓 𐑢𐑺 𐑞𐑺 𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑥𐑴𐑒, 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑓𐑲𐑼. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑯𐑲𐑞𐑼 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 ·𐑢𐑪𐑖𐑦𐑙𐑑𐑩𐑯, 𐑯𐑹 ·𐑯𐑩𐑐𐑴𐑤𐑾𐑯, 𐑯𐑹 ·𐑯𐑧𐑤𐑕𐑩𐑯, 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑼 𐑩 𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑩𐑤 𐑣𐑱𐑤 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑴, 𐑣𐑬𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑥𐑨𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑴𐑒𐑑 𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞𐑺 𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑞 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑛𐑧𐑒𐑕 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑞𐑱 𐑜𐑱𐑟; 𐑣𐑬𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑦𐑑 𐑥𐑱 𐑚𐑰 𐑕𐑼𐑥𐑲𐑟𐑛, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑞 𐑔𐑦𐑒 𐑣𐑱𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑓𐑿𐑗𐑼, 𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑖𐑴𐑤𐑟 𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑮𐑪𐑒𐑕 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑖𐑳𐑯𐑛.</p>
    <p>𐑦𐑑 𐑥𐑱 𐑕𐑰𐑥 𐑳𐑯𐑢𐑪𐑮𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑑 𐑒𐑳𐑐𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑑 𐑞 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑-𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑰; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑑𐑮𐑵𐑔 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑴, 𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑩𐑯 𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑥 𐑓 𐑢𐑦𐑗 ·𐑴𐑚𐑩𐑛 ·𐑥𐑱𐑕𐑦, 𐑞 𐑕𐑴𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑾𐑯 𐑝 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑, 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑩𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤. 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑞𐑦 ·𐑴𐑚𐑩𐑛 𐑑𐑧𐑤𐑟 𐑳𐑕, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑻𐑤𐑦 𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑦, 𐑺 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑕 𐑢𐑻 𐑮𐑧𐑜𐑿𐑤𐑼𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑷𐑯𐑗𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑿𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑜𐑱𐑥, 𐑞 𐑐𐑰𐑐𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑤𐑪𐑓𐑑𐑦 𐑕𐑐𐑸𐑟 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑞 𐑕𐑰-𐑒𐑴𐑕𐑑, 𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑞 𐑤𐑫𐑒-𐑬𐑑𐑕 𐑩𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑥𐑰𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑯𐑱𐑤𐑛 𐑒𐑤𐑰𐑑𐑕, 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑟 𐑓𐑬𐑤𐑟 𐑜𐑴 𐑳𐑐𐑕𐑑𐑺𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑣𐑧𐑯-𐑣𐑬𐑕. 𐑩 𐑓𐑿 𐑘𐑽𐑟 𐑩𐑜𐑴 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑐𐑤𐑨𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩𐑛𐑪𐑐𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 ·𐑚𐑱 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑝 ·𐑯𐑿 ·𐑟𐑰𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛, 𐑣𐑵, 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑜𐑱𐑥, 𐑜𐑱𐑝 𐑯𐑴𐑑𐑦𐑕 𐑑 𐑞 𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑦-𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕 𐑯𐑲 𐑞 𐑚𐑰𐑗. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑒𐑳𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑥 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑯𐑬 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑪𐑚𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑰𐑑; 𐑑𐑻𐑯 𐑢𐑰 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑐𐑼 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑-𐑣𐑧𐑛, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑝 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑰. 𐑞 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑-𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑟 𐑸 𐑒𐑧𐑐𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑕𐑳𐑯-𐑮𐑲𐑟 𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑯-𐑕𐑧𐑑; 𐑞 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑺 𐑮𐑧𐑜𐑿𐑤𐑼 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑟 (𐑨𐑟 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑥), 𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑰𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑰𐑗 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑑𐑵 𐑬𐑼𐑟. 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑼𐑰𐑯 𐑢𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑝 𐑞 𐑑𐑮𐑪𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑕 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑰𐑛𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑤𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑞 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑-𐑣𐑧𐑛; 𐑯𐑱, 𐑑 𐑩 𐑛𐑮𐑰𐑥𐑦 𐑥𐑧𐑛𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑑𐑦𐑝 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑓𐑩𐑤. 𐑞𐑺 𐑿 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛, 𐑩 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑛 𐑓𐑰𐑑 𐑩𐑚𐑳𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑛𐑧𐑒𐑕, 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑞 𐑛𐑰𐑐, 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑓 𐑞 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑕 𐑢𐑻 𐑡𐑲𐑜𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤𐑑𐑕, 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑚𐑦𐑯𐑰𐑔 𐑿 𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑢𐑰𐑯 𐑘𐑹 𐑤𐑧𐑜𐑟, 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑻, 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑥 𐑞 𐑣𐑿𐑡𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑰, 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑕 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑢𐑰𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑵𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑓𐑱𐑥𐑩𐑕 ·𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑕𐑩𐑕 𐑨𐑑 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑮𐑴𐑛𐑟. 𐑞𐑺 𐑿 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛, 𐑤𐑪𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑽𐑰𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑰, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑯𐑳𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑮𐑳𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑝𐑟. 𐑞 𐑑𐑮𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑴𐑤𐑟; 𐑞 𐑛𐑮𐑬𐑟𐑦 𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑚𐑤𐑴; 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑪𐑤𐑝𐑟 𐑿 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑤𐑨𐑙𐑜𐑼. 𐑓 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑐𐑸𐑑, 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑑𐑮𐑪𐑐𐑦𐑒 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑲𐑓, 𐑩 𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑲𐑥 𐑳𐑯𐑦𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑕 𐑿; 𐑿 𐑣𐑽 𐑯𐑴 𐑯𐑿𐑟; 𐑮𐑰𐑛 𐑯𐑴 𐑜𐑩𐑟𐑧𐑑𐑕; 𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑵𐑛 𐑿 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑳𐑯𐑯𐑧𐑕𐑦𐑕𐑺𐑦 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑲𐑑𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕; 𐑿 𐑣𐑽 𐑝 𐑯𐑴 𐑛𐑩𐑥𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑩𐑓𐑤𐑦𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟; 𐑚𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑮𐑳𐑐𐑑 𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑟; 𐑓𐑷𐑤 𐑝 𐑕𐑑𐑪𐑒𐑕; 𐑸 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑔𐑷𐑑 𐑝 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑿 𐑖𐑨𐑤 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑓 𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑼—𐑓 𐑷𐑤 𐑘𐑹 𐑥𐑰𐑤𐑟 𐑓 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑘𐑽𐑟 𐑯 𐑥𐑹 𐑸 𐑕𐑯𐑳𐑜𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑒𐑭𐑕𐑒𐑕, 𐑯 𐑘𐑹 𐑚𐑦𐑤 𐑝 𐑓𐑺 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑥𐑿𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤.</p>
    <p>𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑞𐑼𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑪𐑯 𐑩 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑹 𐑓𐑹 𐑘𐑽𐑟' 𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡, 𐑨𐑟 𐑪𐑓𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑟, 𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑝 𐑞 𐑝𐑺𐑾𐑕 𐑬𐑼𐑟 𐑿 𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑-𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑩𐑥𐑬𐑯𐑑 𐑑 𐑕𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑲𐑼 𐑥𐑳𐑯𐑔𐑕. 𐑯 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑛𐑦𐑐𐑤𐑹𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕 𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑿 𐑛𐑦𐑝𐑴𐑑 𐑕𐑴 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑩 𐑐𐑹𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑑𐑻𐑥 𐑝 𐑘𐑹 𐑯𐑨𐑗𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑤𐑲𐑓, 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑚𐑰 𐑕𐑴 𐑕𐑨𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑑 𐑝 𐑧𐑯𐑦𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑩 𐑒𐑴𐑟𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑣𐑨𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑝𐑯𐑩𐑕, 𐑹 𐑩𐑛𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑑 𐑚𐑮𐑰𐑛 𐑩 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑓𐑼𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑤𐑴𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑓𐑰𐑤𐑦𐑙, 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑨𐑟 𐑐𐑼𐑑𐑱𐑯𐑟 𐑑 𐑩 𐑚𐑧𐑛, 𐑩 𐑣𐑨𐑥𐑩𐑒, 𐑩 𐑣𐑻𐑕, 𐑩 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑦 𐑚𐑪𐑒𐑕, 𐑩 𐑐𐑫𐑤𐑐𐑦𐑑, 𐑩 𐑒𐑴𐑗, 𐑹 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑝 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤 𐑯 𐑕𐑯𐑳𐑜 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑝𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑑𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑼𐑺𐑦𐑤𐑦 𐑲𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑱𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑝𐑟. 𐑘𐑹 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑿𐑠𐑵𐑩𐑤 𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑐𐑻𐑗 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 t' 𐑜𐑨𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑑-𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑, 𐑢𐑺 𐑿 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑑𐑵 𐑔𐑦𐑯 𐑐𐑨𐑮𐑩𐑤𐑧𐑤 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑕 (𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑽 𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯) 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛 𐑞 t' 𐑜𐑨𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑒𐑮𐑪𐑕-𐑑𐑮𐑰𐑟. 𐑣𐑽, 𐑑𐑪𐑕𐑑 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑕𐑰, 𐑞 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑦𐑯𐑼 𐑓𐑰𐑤𐑟 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑒𐑴𐑟𐑦 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑯 𐑩 𐑚𐑫𐑤'𐑟 𐑣𐑹𐑯𐑟. 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑖𐑫𐑼, 𐑦𐑯 𐑒𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑢𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑿 𐑥𐑱 𐑒𐑨𐑮𐑦 𐑘𐑹 𐑣𐑬𐑕 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑓𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑿, 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑖𐑱𐑐 𐑝 𐑩 𐑢𐑪𐑗-𐑒𐑴𐑑; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑐𐑼𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑔𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑗-𐑒𐑴𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑴 𐑥𐑹 𐑝 𐑩 𐑣𐑬𐑕 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑞 𐑳𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦; 𐑓 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑕𐑴𐑤 𐑦𐑟 𐑜𐑤𐑵𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑝 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑓𐑤𐑧𐑖𐑦 𐑑𐑨𐑚𐑼𐑯𐑨𐑒𐑩𐑤, 𐑯 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑰𐑤𐑦 𐑥𐑵𐑝 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑦𐑑, 𐑯𐑹 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑥𐑵𐑝 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑦𐑑, 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑 𐑮𐑳𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑒 𐑝 𐑐𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑖𐑦𐑙 (𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑐𐑦𐑤𐑜𐑮𐑦𐑥 𐑒𐑮𐑪𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑕𐑯𐑴𐑦 ·𐑨𐑤𐑐𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼); 𐑕𐑴 𐑩 𐑢𐑪𐑗-𐑒𐑴𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑴 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑝 𐑩 𐑣𐑬𐑕 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑩 𐑥𐑽 𐑧𐑯𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑴𐑐, 𐑹 𐑩𐑛𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑒𐑦𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑱𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑿. 𐑿 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑐𐑫𐑑 𐑩 𐑖𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑹 𐑗𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑛𐑮𐑷𐑼𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑘𐑹 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦, 𐑯 𐑯𐑴 𐑥𐑹 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑿 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑩 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑝𐑰𐑯𐑾𐑯𐑑 𐑒𐑤𐑪𐑟𐑩𐑑 𐑝 𐑘𐑹 𐑢𐑪𐑗-𐑒𐑴𐑑.</p>
    <p>𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑦𐑕, 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑛𐑦𐑐𐑤𐑹𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑-𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑟 𐑝 𐑩 𐑕𐑳𐑞𐑼𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑸 𐑳𐑯𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑧𐑯𐑝𐑾𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑹 𐑐𐑫𐑤𐑐𐑦𐑑𐑕, 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛 <i>𐑒𐑮𐑴'𐑟-𐑯𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑕</i>, 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑞 𐑤𐑫𐑒-𐑬𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑩 ·𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑯𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑼 𐑸 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑑𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑧𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑢𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑝 𐑞 𐑓𐑮𐑴𐑟𐑩𐑯 𐑕𐑰𐑟. 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑲𐑼𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑑𐑦𐑝 𐑝 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑑, 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑛 “𐑩 ·𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑞 ·𐑲𐑕𐑚𐑻𐑜𐑟, 𐑦𐑯 𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑯𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑓 𐑞 𐑮𐑰-𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑳𐑝𐑼𐑦 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑤𐑪𐑕𐑑 ·𐑲𐑕𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑒 ·𐑒𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑟 𐑝 ·𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑯𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛;” 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑨𐑛𐑥𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑝𐑪𐑤𐑿𐑥, 𐑷𐑤 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑟 𐑝 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑-𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑟 𐑸 𐑓𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑖𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑗𐑸𐑥𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑤 𐑩𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑮𐑰𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 <i>𐑒𐑮𐑴'𐑟-𐑯𐑧𐑕𐑑</i> 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑜𐑤𐑱𐑕𐑽, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑯𐑱𐑥 𐑝 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑑'𐑕 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑒𐑮𐑭𐑓𐑑. 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑞 <i>·𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑑'𐑕 𐑒𐑮𐑴'𐑟-𐑯𐑧𐑕𐑑</i>, 𐑦𐑯 𐑪𐑯𐑼 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓; 𐑣𐑰 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑼𐑦𐑡𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑼 𐑯 𐑐𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑰, 𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑰 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑷𐑤 𐑮𐑦𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑓𐑷𐑤𐑕 𐑛𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑕𐑦, 𐑯 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑓 𐑢𐑰 𐑒𐑷𐑤 𐑬𐑼 𐑴𐑯 𐑗𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑯 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑬𐑼 𐑴𐑯 𐑯𐑱𐑥𐑟 (𐑢𐑰 𐑓𐑭𐑞𐑼𐑟 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑼𐑦𐑡𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑯 𐑐𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑰𐑟), 𐑕𐑴 𐑤𐑲𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑟 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑢𐑰 𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑪𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑱𐑑 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑬𐑼𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑝𐑟 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑨𐑐𐑼𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑕 𐑢𐑰 𐑥𐑱 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑧𐑑. 𐑦𐑯 𐑖𐑱𐑐, 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑑'𐑕 𐑒𐑮𐑴'𐑟-𐑯𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑤𐑸𐑡 𐑑𐑽𐑕 𐑹 𐑐𐑲𐑐; 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑐𐑩𐑯 𐑩𐑚𐑳𐑝, 𐑣𐑬𐑧𐑝𐑼, 𐑢𐑺 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑖𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑥𐑵𐑝𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑲𐑛-𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑯 𐑑 𐑒𐑰𐑐 𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑢𐑼𐑛 𐑝 𐑘𐑹 𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑣𐑸𐑛 𐑜𐑱𐑤. 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑦𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑, 𐑿 𐑩𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑦𐑑 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑐-𐑣𐑨𐑗 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑥. 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑕𐑲𐑛, 𐑹 𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑯𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑻𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐, 𐑦𐑟 𐑩 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑓𐑼𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑰𐑑, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑤𐑪𐑒𐑼 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑯𐑰𐑔 𐑓 𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑮𐑧𐑤𐑩𐑟, 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑓𐑼𐑑𐑼𐑟, 𐑯 𐑒𐑴𐑑𐑕. 𐑦𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑳𐑯𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑩 𐑤𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑮𐑨𐑒, 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑑 𐑒𐑰𐑐 𐑘𐑹 𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑑, 𐑐𐑲𐑐, 𐑑𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑴𐑐, 𐑯 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑯𐑷𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑝𐑰𐑯𐑾𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟. 𐑢𐑧𐑯 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑐𐑻𐑕𐑩𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑫𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑-𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑒𐑮𐑴'𐑟-𐑯𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟, 𐑣𐑰 𐑑𐑧𐑤𐑟 𐑳𐑕 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑷𐑤𐑢𐑱𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑩 𐑮𐑲𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑥 (𐑷𐑤𐑕𐑴 𐑓𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑮𐑨𐑒), 𐑑𐑩𐑜𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑐𐑬𐑛𐑼 𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒 𐑯 𐑖𐑪𐑑, 𐑓 𐑞 𐑐𐑻𐑐𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑐𐑪𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑓 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱 𐑯𐑸𐑢𐑪𐑤𐑕, 𐑹 𐑝𐑱𐑜𐑮𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑕𐑰 𐑿𐑯𐑦𐑒𐑹𐑯𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼𐑟; 𐑓 𐑿 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑩𐑒𐑕𐑧𐑕𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑖𐑵𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑒 𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑑 𐑖𐑵𐑑 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑦𐑟 𐑩 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑔𐑦𐑙. 𐑯𐑬, 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑩 𐑤𐑱𐑚𐑼 𐑝 𐑤𐑳𐑝 𐑓 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑑 𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑚, 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑛𐑳𐑟, 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑛𐑰𐑑𐑱𐑤𐑛 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑝𐑰𐑯𐑾𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑮𐑴'𐑟-𐑯𐑧𐑕𐑑; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑴 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑴 𐑦𐑯𐑤𐑸𐑡𐑩𐑟 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑝 𐑞𐑰𐑟, 𐑯 𐑞𐑴 𐑣𐑰 𐑑𐑮𐑰𐑑𐑕 𐑳𐑕 𐑑 𐑩 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑕𐑲𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒 𐑩𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑒𐑮𐑴'𐑟-𐑯𐑧𐑕𐑑, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑕 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑧𐑐𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑓 𐑞 𐑐𐑻𐑐𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑻𐑼𐑟 𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑳𐑤𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛 𐑞 “𐑤𐑴𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑩𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯” 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑚𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑥𐑨𐑜𐑯𐑩𐑑𐑕; 𐑩𐑯 𐑻𐑼 𐑩𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑚𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑑 𐑞 𐑣𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑝𐑦𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑞 𐑲𐑼𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐'𐑕 𐑐𐑤𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑕, 𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑜𐑤𐑱𐑕𐑽'𐑟 𐑒𐑱𐑕, 𐑐𐑼𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑕, 𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑣𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑕𐑴 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑚𐑮𐑴𐑒𐑩𐑯-𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒𐑕𐑥𐑦𐑔𐑕 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑣𐑻 𐑒𐑮𐑵; 𐑲 𐑕𐑱, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑴 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 𐑦𐑟 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑑 𐑯 𐑕𐑲𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒 𐑣𐑽, 𐑘𐑧𐑑, 𐑓 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑻𐑯𐑛 “𐑚𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑛𐑰𐑝𐑦𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟,” “𐑨𐑟𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑔 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑕 𐑪𐑚𐑟𐑼𐑝𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟,” 𐑯 “𐑩𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑒𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑑 𐑻𐑼𐑟,” 𐑣𐑰 𐑯𐑴𐑟 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑢𐑧𐑤, ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑑, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑴 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑦𐑥𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑥𐑨𐑜𐑯𐑧𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑥𐑧𐑛𐑦𐑑𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟, 𐑨𐑟 𐑑 𐑓𐑱𐑤 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑩𐑒𐑱𐑠𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑑𐑩𐑢𐑹𐑛𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑤𐑧𐑯𐑦𐑖𐑑 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑱𐑕-𐑚𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑤, 𐑕𐑴 𐑯𐑲𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑪𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑮𐑴'𐑟 𐑯𐑧𐑕𐑑, 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑦𐑯 𐑰𐑟𐑦 𐑮𐑰𐑗 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛. 𐑞𐑴, 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑤, 𐑲 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑛𐑥𐑲𐑼 𐑯 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑤𐑳𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑝, 𐑞 𐑪𐑯𐑩𐑕𐑑, 𐑯 𐑤𐑻𐑯𐑛 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯; 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑲 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑦𐑑 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑦𐑤 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑕𐑴 𐑳𐑑𐑼𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑹 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑒𐑱𐑕-𐑚𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑤, 𐑕𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑩 𐑓𐑱𐑔𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑯 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑓𐑼𐑑𐑼 𐑦𐑑 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯, 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑥𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑓𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑼𐑟 𐑯 𐑣𐑫𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑛𐑦𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑔𐑩𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑕 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑓𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑚𐑻𐑛'𐑟 𐑯𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑦𐑯 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑹 𐑓𐑹 𐑐𐑻𐑗𐑩𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑐𐑴𐑤.</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑓 𐑢𐑰 ·𐑕𐑳𐑞𐑼𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑟 𐑸 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑴 𐑕𐑯𐑳𐑜𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑬𐑟𐑛 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑓𐑑 𐑨𐑟 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑑 𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 ·𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑯𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑢𐑻; 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑩𐑛𐑝𐑭𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑡 𐑦𐑟 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑼-𐑚𐑨𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑢𐑲𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑼𐑧𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑳𐑒𐑑𐑦𐑝 𐑕𐑰𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑢𐑰 ·𐑕𐑬𐑔 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑟 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑤𐑴𐑑. 𐑓 𐑢𐑳𐑯, 𐑲 𐑿𐑕𐑑 𐑑 𐑤𐑬𐑯𐑡 𐑳𐑐 𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑦𐑙 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑤𐑧𐑠𐑼𐑤𐑦, 𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑑𐑪𐑐 𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑩 𐑗𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜, 𐑹 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑧𐑤𐑕 𐑪𐑓 𐑛𐑿𐑑𐑦 𐑣𐑵𐑥 𐑲 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑞𐑺; 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑩𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑱 𐑓𐑻𐑞𐑼, 𐑯 𐑔𐑮𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑤𐑱𐑟𐑦 𐑤𐑧𐑜 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 𐑑𐑪𐑐-𐑕𐑱𐑤 𐑘𐑸𐑛, 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑩 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑼𐑦 𐑝𐑿 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑐𐑭𐑕𐑗𐑼𐑟, 𐑯 𐑕𐑴 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑬𐑯𐑑 𐑑 𐑥𐑲 𐑳𐑤𐑑𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑑 𐑛𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯.</p>
    <p>𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑥𐑰 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑩 𐑒𐑤𐑰𐑯 𐑚𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑦𐑑 𐑣𐑽, 𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑛𐑥𐑦𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑲 𐑒𐑧𐑐𐑑 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑪𐑮𐑦 𐑜𐑸𐑛. 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑚𐑤𐑩𐑥 𐑝 𐑞 𐑿𐑯𐑦𐑝𐑻𐑕 𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑪𐑤𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑰, 𐑣𐑬 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑲—𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑧𐑓𐑑 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑰𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑑 𐑥𐑲𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑔𐑷𐑑-𐑦𐑯𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑤𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛—𐑣𐑬 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑲 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑥𐑲 𐑪𐑚𐑤𐑦𐑜𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑑 𐑩𐑚𐑟𐑻𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑕' 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑹𐑛𐑼𐑟, “𐑒𐑰𐑐 𐑘𐑹 𐑢𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑲 𐑴𐑐𐑩𐑯, 𐑯 𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑑 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑑𐑲𐑥.”</p>
    <p>𐑯 𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑥𐑰 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕 𐑥𐑵𐑝𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑨𐑛𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑦𐑖 𐑿, 𐑘𐑰 𐑖𐑦𐑐-𐑴𐑯𐑼𐑟 𐑝 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑! 𐑚𐑦𐑢𐑺 𐑝 𐑦𐑯𐑤𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑘𐑹 𐑝𐑦𐑡𐑦𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑦𐑟 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑤𐑨𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑤𐑰𐑯 𐑚𐑮𐑬 𐑯 𐑣𐑪𐑤𐑴 𐑲; 𐑜𐑦𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑑 𐑳𐑯𐑕𐑰𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑥𐑧𐑛𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑑𐑦𐑝𐑯𐑩𐑕; 𐑯 𐑣𐑵 𐑪𐑓𐑼𐑟 𐑑 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 ·𐑓𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑛 𐑝 ·𐑚𐑬𐑛𐑦𐑗 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑧𐑛. 𐑚𐑦𐑢𐑺 𐑝 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯, 𐑲 𐑕𐑱; 𐑘𐑹 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑕𐑰𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑞𐑱 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑚𐑰 𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑛; 𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑕𐑳𐑙𐑒𐑩𐑯-𐑲𐑛 𐑘𐑳𐑙 ·𐑐𐑤𐑩𐑑𐑪𐑯𐑦𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑑𐑴 𐑿 𐑑𐑧𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑒𐑕 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛, 𐑯 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑿 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑐𐑲𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑗𐑼. 𐑯𐑹 𐑸 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑥𐑴𐑯𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑳𐑯𐑯𐑰𐑛𐑩𐑛. 𐑓 𐑯𐑬𐑩𐑛𐑱𐑟, 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑦 𐑓𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑟 𐑩𐑯 𐑩𐑕𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑥 𐑓 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑮𐑴𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑒, 𐑥𐑧𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑒𐑪𐑤𐑦, 𐑯 𐑨𐑚𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑑-𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑘𐑳𐑙 𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑜𐑳𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 carking 𐑒𐑺𐑟 𐑝 𐑻𐑔, 𐑯 𐑕𐑰𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑑𐑸 𐑯 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑚𐑼. ·𐑗𐑲𐑤𐑛 ·𐑣𐑨𐑮𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑳𐑯𐑓𐑮𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑻𐑗𐑩𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑-𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑝 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑤𐑳𐑒𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑖𐑦𐑐, 𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑵𐑛𐑦 𐑓𐑮𐑱𐑟 𐑦𐑡𐑨𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑱𐑑𐑕:—</p>
    <p>𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑪𐑓𐑩𐑯 𐑛𐑵 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑕 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑨𐑚𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑑-𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑘𐑳𐑙 𐑓𐑦𐑤𐑪𐑕𐑩𐑓𐑼𐑟 𐑑 𐑑𐑭𐑕𐑒, 𐑳𐑐𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑓𐑰𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑩𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑑 “𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑩𐑕𐑑” 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡; 𐑣𐑭𐑓-𐑣𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑱 𐑸 𐑕𐑴 𐑣𐑴𐑐𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑪𐑕𐑑 𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑪𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑨𐑥𐑚𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑕𐑰𐑒𐑮𐑩𐑑 𐑕𐑴𐑤𐑟 𐑞𐑱 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑮𐑭𐑞𐑼 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑰 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑳𐑞𐑼𐑢𐑲𐑟. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑝𐑱𐑯; 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑘𐑳𐑙 ·𐑐𐑤𐑩𐑑𐑪𐑯𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑕 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑩 𐑯𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑝𐑦𐑠𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑻𐑓𐑦𐑒𐑑; 𐑞𐑱 𐑸 𐑖𐑹𐑑-𐑕𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑛; 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑿𐑕, 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯 𐑞 𐑝𐑦𐑟𐑿𐑩𐑤 𐑯𐑻𐑝? 𐑞𐑱 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑤𐑧𐑓𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑪𐑐𐑼𐑩-𐑜𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑴𐑥.</p>
    <p>“𐑢𐑲, 𐑞𐑬 𐑥𐑳𐑙𐑒𐑦,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑩 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽 𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑤𐑨𐑛𐑟, “𐑢𐑰'𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑯𐑬 𐑣𐑸𐑛 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑘𐑽𐑟, 𐑯 𐑞𐑬 𐑣𐑨𐑕𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑮𐑱𐑟𐑛 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑘𐑧𐑑. 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑸 𐑕𐑒𐑺𐑕 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑧𐑯'𐑟 𐑑𐑰𐑔 𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑞𐑬 𐑸𐑑 𐑳𐑐 𐑣𐑽.” 𐑐𐑼𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑕 𐑞𐑱 𐑢𐑻; 𐑹 𐑐𐑼𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑕 𐑞𐑺 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑖𐑴𐑤𐑟 𐑝 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑸 𐑣𐑼𐑲𐑟𐑩𐑯; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑤𐑳𐑤𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩𐑯 𐑴𐑐𐑾𐑥-𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑤𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑝𐑱𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑, 𐑳𐑯𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑕 𐑮𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑦 𐑦𐑟 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑨𐑚𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑑-𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑿𐑔 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑚𐑤𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑱𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑝 𐑢𐑱𐑝𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑔𐑷𐑑𐑕, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑤𐑵𐑟𐑩𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑲𐑛𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑦; 𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑕 𐑞 𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑰𐑑 𐑓 𐑞 𐑝𐑦𐑟𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑡 𐑝 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑛𐑰𐑐, 𐑚𐑤𐑵, 𐑚𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑥𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑕𐑴𐑤, 𐑐𐑼𐑝𐑱𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑒𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑯 𐑯𐑱𐑗𐑼; 𐑯 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡, 𐑣𐑭𐑓-𐑕𐑰𐑯, 𐑜𐑤𐑲𐑛𐑦𐑙, 𐑚𐑿𐑑𐑦𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑤𐑵𐑛𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑥; 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑥𐑤𐑦-𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑳𐑝𐑼𐑛, 𐑳𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑦𐑯 𐑝 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑻𐑯𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑓𐑹𐑥, 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑟 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑞 𐑦𐑥𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑦𐑤𐑵𐑕𐑦𐑝 𐑔𐑷𐑑𐑕 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑰𐑐𐑩𐑤 𐑞 𐑕𐑴𐑤 𐑚𐑲 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑿𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑦𐑑. 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑦𐑯𐑗𐑭𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑥𐑵𐑛, 𐑞𐑲 𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑮𐑦𐑑 𐑧𐑚𐑟 𐑩𐑢𐑱 𐑑 𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑕 𐑦𐑑 𐑒𐑱𐑥; 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑟 𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑿𐑟𐑛 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑯 𐑕𐑐𐑱𐑕; 𐑤𐑲𐑒 ·𐑒𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑥𐑼'𐑟 𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑛 ·𐑐𐑨𐑯𐑔𐑰𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑨𐑖𐑩𐑟, 𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑩 𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑝 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑖𐑹 𐑞 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑜𐑤𐑴𐑚 𐑴𐑝𐑼.</p>
    <p>𐑞𐑺 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑴 𐑤𐑲𐑓 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑰, 𐑯𐑬, 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑧𐑐𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑮𐑪𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑲𐑓 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑸𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑩 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑴𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑖𐑦𐑐; 𐑚𐑲 𐑣𐑻, 𐑚𐑪𐑮𐑴𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑕𐑰; 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑕𐑰, 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑑𐑲𐑛𐑟 𐑝 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐, 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑛𐑮𐑰𐑥 𐑦𐑟 𐑪𐑯 𐑘𐑰, 𐑥𐑵𐑝 𐑘𐑹 𐑓𐑫𐑑 𐑹 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑗; 𐑕𐑤𐑦𐑐 𐑘𐑹 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤; 𐑯 𐑘𐑹 𐑲𐑛𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑟 𐑚𐑨𐑒 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑪𐑮𐑼. 𐑴𐑝𐑼 ·𐑛𐑰𐑕𐑒𐑸𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝𐑹𐑑𐑦𐑕𐑰𐑟 𐑿 𐑣𐑪𐑝𐑼. 𐑯 𐑐𐑼𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑕, 𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑦𐑛-𐑛𐑱, 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑺𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑧𐑞𐑼, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑣𐑭𐑓-𐑔𐑮𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑖𐑮𐑰𐑒 𐑿 𐑛𐑮𐑪𐑐 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑐𐑨𐑮𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑺 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑼 𐑕𐑰, 𐑯𐑴 𐑥𐑹 𐑑 𐑮𐑲𐑟 𐑓 𐑧𐑝𐑼. 𐑣𐑰𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑧𐑤, 𐑘𐑰 ·𐑐𐑨𐑯𐑔𐑰𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑕!</p>
  </body>
</html>
