<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Chapter 101</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="chapter-101" xml:lang="en-US">
      <h2 id="chapterheader-101">·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 101. 𐑞 ·𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑼.</h2>
    </div>
    <p>𐑺 𐑞 ·𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑤𐑦𐑖 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑓𐑱𐑛𐑟 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑕𐑲𐑑, 𐑚𐑰 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑧𐑑 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑣𐑽, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑖𐑰 𐑣𐑱𐑤𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 ·𐑤𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑯, 𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑱𐑥𐑛 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑞 𐑤𐑱𐑑 ·𐑕𐑨𐑥𐑿𐑩𐑤 ·𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑸𐑚𐑦, 𐑥𐑻𐑗𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑦, 𐑞 𐑼𐑦𐑡𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑞 𐑓𐑱𐑥𐑩𐑕 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑬𐑕 𐑝 ·𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑸𐑚𐑦 &amp; ·𐑕𐑳𐑯𐑟; 𐑩 𐑣𐑬𐑕 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑲 𐑐𐑫𐑼 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑥𐑩𐑯'𐑟 𐑩𐑐𐑦𐑯𐑘𐑩𐑯, 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑓𐑸 𐑚𐑦𐑣𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑿𐑯𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑮𐑶𐑩𐑤 𐑣𐑬𐑟𐑩𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑑𐑿𐑛𐑼𐑟 𐑯 ·𐑚𐑻𐑚𐑩𐑯𐑟, 𐑦𐑯 𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑮𐑾𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑩𐑕𐑑. 𐑣𐑬 𐑤𐑪𐑙, 𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑼 𐑑 𐑞 𐑘𐑽 𐑝 𐑬𐑼 ·𐑤𐑹𐑛 1775, 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑬𐑕 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕, 𐑥𐑲 𐑯𐑿𐑥𐑼𐑩𐑕 𐑓𐑦𐑖-𐑛𐑪𐑒𐑿𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑛𐑵 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑘𐑽 (1775) 𐑦𐑑 𐑓𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑬𐑑 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 ·𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑤𐑦𐑖 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑕 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑮𐑧𐑜𐑿𐑤𐑼𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤; 𐑞𐑴 𐑓 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑕𐑒𐑹 𐑝 𐑘𐑽𐑟 𐑐𐑮𐑰𐑝𐑾𐑕 (𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑕 1726) 𐑬𐑼 𐑝𐑨𐑤𐑾𐑯𐑑 ·𐑒𐑪𐑓𐑦𐑯𐑟 𐑯 ·𐑥𐑱𐑕𐑦𐑟 𐑝 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑 𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑝𐑦𐑯𐑘𐑼𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑤𐑸𐑡 𐑓𐑤𐑰𐑑𐑕 𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑿𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 ·𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑯𐑹𐑔 𐑯 ·𐑕𐑬𐑔 ·𐑩𐑑𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑒: 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑧𐑤𐑕𐑢𐑺. 𐑚𐑰 𐑦𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑹𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑽, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑒𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑕𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑤𐑲𐑟𐑛 𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤; 𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑓 𐑣𐑭𐑓 𐑩 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑗𐑼𐑦 𐑞𐑱 𐑢𐑻 𐑞 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑰𐑐𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑜𐑤𐑴𐑚 𐑣𐑵 𐑕𐑴 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥.</p>
    <p>𐑦𐑯 1778, 𐑩 𐑓𐑲𐑯 𐑖𐑦𐑐, 𐑞 ·𐑩𐑥𐑰𐑤𐑾, 𐑓𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑬𐑑 𐑓 𐑞 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑕 𐑐𐑻𐑐𐑩𐑕, 𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑴𐑤 𐑗𐑸𐑡 𐑝 𐑞 𐑝𐑦𐑜𐑼𐑩𐑕 ·𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑸𐑚𐑦𐑟, 𐑚𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 ·𐑒𐑱𐑐 ·𐑣𐑹𐑯, 𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑞 𐑯𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑑 𐑤𐑴𐑼 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑝 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 ·𐑕𐑬𐑔 ·𐑕𐑰. 𐑞 𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑕𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑯 𐑤𐑳𐑒𐑦 𐑢𐑳𐑯; 𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑣𐑻 𐑚𐑻𐑔 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑻 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑓𐑫𐑤 𐑝 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑕 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥, 𐑞 ·𐑩𐑥𐑰𐑤𐑾'𐑟 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑭𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑵𐑯 𐑓𐑪𐑤𐑴𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑕, ·𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑤𐑦𐑖 𐑯 ·𐑩𐑥𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑯, 𐑯 𐑞𐑳𐑕 𐑞 𐑝𐑭𐑕𐑑 ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑜𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑩𐑕𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒 𐑢𐑻 𐑔𐑮𐑴𐑯 𐑴𐑐𐑩𐑯. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑛𐑰𐑛, 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑜𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑣𐑬𐑕 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑻𐑛 𐑦𐑑𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓: ·𐑕𐑨𐑥𐑿𐑩𐑤 𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑟 ·𐑕𐑳𐑯𐑟—𐑣𐑬 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦, 𐑞𐑺 𐑥𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑯𐑴𐑟—𐑯 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑞𐑺 𐑦𐑥𐑰𐑛𐑾𐑑 𐑷𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑕𐑩𐑟, 𐑯 𐑐𐑸𐑑𐑤𐑦, 𐑲 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒, 𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑕, 𐑞 ·𐑚𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑖 𐑜𐑳𐑝𐑼𐑯𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑿𐑕𐑑 𐑑 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑕𐑤𐑵𐑐-𐑝-𐑢𐑹 ·𐑮𐑨𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑼 𐑪𐑯 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡 𐑝 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑳𐑝𐑼𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑬𐑔 ·𐑕𐑰. 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑩 𐑯𐑱𐑝𐑩𐑤 ·𐑐𐑴𐑕𐑑-·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯, 𐑞 ·𐑮𐑨𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑼 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑩 𐑮𐑨𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡 𐑝 𐑦𐑑, 𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑕𐑻𐑝𐑦𐑕; 𐑣𐑬 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑛𐑳𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑩𐑐𐑽. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑷𐑤. 𐑦𐑯 1819, 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑣𐑬𐑕 𐑓𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑬𐑑 𐑩 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑳𐑝𐑼𐑦 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑝 𐑞𐑺 𐑴𐑯, 𐑑 𐑜𐑴 𐑪𐑯 𐑩 𐑑𐑱𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑟 𐑑 𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑴𐑑 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑝 ·𐑡𐑩𐑐𐑨𐑯. 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑖𐑦𐑐—𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛 𐑞 “·𐑕𐑽𐑩𐑯”—𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑩 𐑯𐑴𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑟; 𐑯 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞𐑳𐑕 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 ·𐑡𐑨𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑰𐑟 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 ·𐑜𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑯𐑴𐑯. 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑽𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑓𐑱𐑥𐑩𐑕 𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑩 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑒𐑪𐑓𐑦𐑯, 𐑩 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑𐑼.</p>
    <p>𐑷𐑤 𐑪𐑯𐑼 𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑸𐑚𐑦𐑟, 𐑞𐑺𐑓𐑹, 𐑣𐑵𐑟 𐑣𐑬𐑕, 𐑲 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒, 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑕 𐑑 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑛𐑱; 𐑞𐑴 𐑛𐑬𐑑𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑞 𐑼𐑦𐑡𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑤 ·𐑕𐑨𐑥𐑿𐑩𐑤 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑩𐑜𐑴 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑕𐑤𐑦𐑐𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑓 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 ·𐑕𐑬𐑔 ·𐑕𐑰 𐑝 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛.</p>
    <p>𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑯𐑱𐑥𐑛 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑢𐑻𐑞𐑦 𐑝 𐑞 𐑪𐑯𐑼, 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼 𐑯 𐑩 𐑯𐑴𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑮𐑭𐑓𐑑 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑢𐑱. 𐑲 𐑚𐑹𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑻 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕 𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑯𐑲𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑢𐑺 𐑪𐑓 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑨𐑑𐑩𐑜𐑴𐑯𐑾𐑯 𐑒𐑴𐑕𐑑, 𐑯 𐑛𐑮𐑨𐑙𐑒 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑓𐑤𐑦𐑐 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑴𐑒𐑕𐑩𐑤. 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑓𐑲𐑯 𐑜𐑨𐑥 𐑢𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛, 𐑯 𐑞𐑱 𐑢𐑻 𐑷𐑤 𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑕—𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑕𐑴𐑤 𐑪𐑯 𐑚𐑹𐑛. 𐑩 𐑖𐑹𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑓 𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑥, 𐑯 𐑩 𐑡𐑪𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑧𐑔. 𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑓𐑲𐑯 𐑜𐑨𐑥 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑛—𐑤𐑪𐑙, 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑑𐑳𐑗𐑑 𐑣𐑻 𐑐𐑤𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑕 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑲𐑝𐑼𐑦 𐑣𐑰𐑤—𐑦𐑑 𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑥𐑰 𐑝 𐑞 𐑯𐑴𐑚𐑩𐑤, 𐑕𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑛, ·𐑕𐑨𐑒𐑕𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑪𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑑𐑨𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑖𐑦𐑐; 𐑯 𐑥𐑱 𐑥𐑲 𐑐𐑸𐑟𐑩𐑯 𐑓𐑼𐑜𐑧𐑑 𐑥𐑰, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑧𐑥𐑚𐑼 𐑥𐑰, 𐑦𐑓 𐑲 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑤𐑵𐑟 𐑕𐑲𐑑 𐑝 𐑦𐑑. 𐑓𐑤𐑦𐑐? 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑲 𐑕𐑱 𐑢𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑓𐑤𐑦𐑐? 𐑘𐑧𐑕, 𐑯 𐑢𐑰 𐑓𐑤𐑦𐑐𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑝 𐑑𐑧𐑯 𐑜𐑨𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑞 𐑬𐑼; 𐑯 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑒𐑢𐑷𐑤 𐑒𐑱𐑥 (𐑓 𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑕𐑒𐑢𐑷𐑤𐑦 𐑪𐑓 𐑞𐑺 𐑚𐑲 ·𐑐𐑨𐑑𐑩𐑜𐑴𐑯𐑾), 𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟—𐑝𐑦𐑟𐑦𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑯 𐑷𐑤—𐑢𐑻 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛 𐑑 𐑮𐑰𐑓 𐑑𐑪𐑐𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑟, 𐑢𐑰 𐑢𐑻 𐑕𐑴 𐑑𐑪𐑐-𐑣𐑧𐑝𐑦 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑑 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑙 𐑰𐑗 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑓𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑚𐑴𐑤𐑦𐑯𐑟; 𐑯 𐑢𐑰 𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑻𐑤𐑛 𐑞 𐑕𐑒𐑻𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑬𐑼 𐑡𐑨𐑒𐑩𐑑𐑕 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑟, 𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑰 𐑣𐑳𐑙 𐑞𐑺, 𐑮𐑰𐑓𐑑 𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑣𐑬𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑜𐑱𐑤, 𐑩 𐑢𐑹𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑭𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑤 𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑛𐑮𐑳𐑙𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑑𐑸𐑟. 𐑣𐑬𐑧𐑝𐑼, 𐑞 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑕 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑜𐑴 𐑴𐑝𐑼𐑚𐑹𐑛; 𐑯 𐑚𐑲 𐑯 𐑚𐑲 𐑢𐑰 𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑨𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑛𐑬𐑯, 𐑕𐑴 𐑕𐑴𐑚𐑼, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑑 𐑐𐑭𐑕 𐑞 𐑓𐑤𐑦𐑐 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯, 𐑞𐑴 𐑞 𐑕𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑡 𐑕𐑷𐑤𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑱 𐑚𐑻𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑴𐑒𐑕𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑒𐑳𐑑𐑩𐑤, 𐑮𐑭𐑞𐑼 𐑑𐑵 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑛𐑲𐑤𐑵𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑯 𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑑 𐑥𐑲 𐑑𐑱𐑕𐑑.</p>
    <p>𐑞 𐑚𐑰𐑓 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑓𐑲𐑯—𐑑𐑳𐑓, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦 𐑦𐑯 𐑦𐑑. 𐑞𐑱 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑚𐑫𐑤-𐑚𐑰𐑓; 𐑳𐑞𐑼𐑟, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑛𐑮𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑛𐑼𐑦 𐑚𐑰𐑓; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑲 𐑛𐑵 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑯𐑴, 𐑓 𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯, 𐑣𐑬 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟. 𐑞𐑱 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑛𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑑𐑵; 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑤, 𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑧𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑦 𐑜𐑤𐑪𐑚𐑿𐑤𐑼, 𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑛𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑦𐑙𐑟. 𐑲 𐑓𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑿 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑓𐑰𐑤 𐑞𐑧𐑥, 𐑯 𐑮𐑴𐑤 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑿 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑞𐑱 𐑢𐑻 𐑕𐑢𐑪𐑤𐑴𐑛. 𐑦𐑓 𐑿 𐑕𐑑𐑵𐑐𐑑 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑑𐑵 𐑓𐑸 𐑓𐑹𐑢𐑼𐑛, 𐑿 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑐𐑦𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑿 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑘𐑼𐑛-𐑚𐑷𐑤𐑟. 𐑞 𐑚𐑮𐑧𐑛—𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑒𐑫𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑐𐑑; 𐑚𐑦𐑕𐑲𐑛𐑟, 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩𐑯 𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑦-𐑕𐑒𐑹𐑚𐑿𐑑𐑦𐑒; 𐑦𐑯 𐑖𐑹𐑑, 𐑞 𐑚𐑮𐑧𐑛 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑖 𐑓𐑺 𐑞𐑱 𐑣𐑨𐑛. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑓𐑴𐑒𐑕𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑤𐑲𐑑, 𐑯 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑰𐑟𐑦 𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑐 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑩 𐑛𐑸𐑒 𐑒𐑹𐑯𐑼 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑿 𐑱𐑑 𐑦𐑑. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑷𐑤, 𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑻 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑒 𐑑 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑥, 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑛𐑦𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑒𐑫𐑒'𐑕 𐑚𐑶𐑤𐑼𐑟, 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑵𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯 𐑤𐑲𐑝 𐑐𐑸𐑗𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑚𐑶𐑤𐑼𐑟; 𐑓𐑹 𐑯 𐑭𐑓𐑑, 𐑲 𐑕𐑱, 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑨𐑥𐑿𐑩𐑤 ·𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑸𐑚𐑦 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑡𐑪𐑤𐑦 𐑖𐑦𐑐; 𐑝 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑓𐑺 𐑯 𐑐𐑤𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑦; 𐑓𐑲𐑯 𐑓𐑤𐑦𐑐 𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑪𐑙; 𐑒𐑮𐑨𐑒 𐑓𐑧𐑤𐑴𐑟 𐑷𐑤, 𐑯 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑚𐑵𐑑 𐑣𐑰𐑤𐑟 𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑑-𐑚𐑨𐑯𐑛.</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑦𐑑, 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑘𐑰, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑨𐑥𐑿𐑩𐑤 ·𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑸𐑚𐑦, 𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑳𐑞𐑼 ·𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑤𐑦𐑖 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑼𐑟 𐑲 𐑯𐑴 𐑝—𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑴—𐑢𐑻 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑓𐑱𐑥𐑩𐑕, 𐑣𐑪𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑕; 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑐𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑚𐑰𐑓, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑮𐑧𐑛, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑯, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑡𐑴𐑒; 𐑯 𐑢𐑻 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑵𐑯 𐑢𐑽𐑦 𐑝 𐑰𐑑𐑦𐑙, 𐑯 𐑛𐑮𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑦𐑙, 𐑯 𐑤𐑭𐑓𐑦𐑙? 𐑲 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑑𐑧𐑤 𐑿. 𐑞 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑗𐑽 𐑝 𐑞𐑰𐑟 ·𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑤𐑦𐑖 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑼𐑟 𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑼 𐑓 𐑣𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑮𐑰𐑕𐑻𐑗. 𐑯𐑹 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑲 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑕𐑐𐑺𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑮𐑰𐑕𐑻𐑗, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑦𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑯𐑰𐑛𐑩𐑛.</p>
    <p>𐑞 ·𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑤𐑦𐑖 𐑢𐑻 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑰𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑦 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 ·𐑣𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑟, ·𐑟𐑰𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑟, 𐑯 ·𐑛𐑱𐑯𐑟; 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑵𐑥 𐑞𐑱 𐑛𐑦𐑮𐑲𐑝𐑛 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑑𐑻𐑥𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑦; 𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑥𐑹, 𐑞𐑺 𐑓𐑨𐑑 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑓𐑨𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟, 𐑑𐑳𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑐𐑤𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑦 𐑑 𐑰𐑑 𐑯 𐑛𐑮𐑦𐑙𐑒. 𐑓, 𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑔𐑦𐑙, 𐑞 ·𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑤𐑦𐑖 𐑥𐑻𐑗𐑩𐑯𐑑-𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑕 𐑣𐑻 𐑒𐑮𐑵; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑴 𐑞 ·𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑤𐑦𐑖 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑼. 𐑣𐑧𐑯𐑕, 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑤𐑦𐑖, 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑗𐑽 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑯𐑹𐑥𐑩𐑤 𐑯 𐑯𐑨𐑗𐑼𐑩𐑤, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑯 𐑐𐑼𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑼; 𐑯, 𐑞𐑺𐑓𐑹, 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑤 𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑡𐑦𐑯, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑽 𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑬𐑑, 𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑚𐑰 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑓𐑻𐑞𐑼 𐑦𐑤𐑵𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛.</p>
    <p>𐑛𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑲 𐑮𐑰𐑕𐑻𐑗𐑩𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑒 𐑣𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑦𐑟, 𐑲 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑩𐑯 𐑱𐑯𐑗𐑩𐑯𐑑 ·𐑛𐑳𐑗 𐑝𐑪𐑤𐑿𐑥, 𐑢𐑦𐑗, 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑𐑦 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑥𐑧𐑤 𐑝 𐑦𐑑, 𐑲 𐑯𐑿 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑼𐑟. 𐑞 𐑑𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑪𐑟, “𐑛𐑨𐑯 ·𐑒𐑵𐑐𐑥𐑩𐑯,” 𐑢𐑺𐑓𐑹 𐑲 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑵𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑨𐑤𐑿𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑥𐑧𐑥𐑢𐑸𐑟 𐑝 𐑕𐑳𐑥 ·𐑨𐑥𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑛𐑨𐑥 𐑒𐑵𐑐𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑦, 𐑨𐑟 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑒𐑨𐑮𐑦 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑒𐑵𐑐𐑼. 𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑮𐑰𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑹𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑩𐑐𐑦𐑯𐑘𐑩𐑯 𐑚𐑲 𐑕𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑛𐑳𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑢𐑳𐑯 “𐑓𐑦𐑑𐑕 ·𐑕𐑢𐑨𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑼.” 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑥𐑲 𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑯𐑛 ·𐑛𐑼 ·𐑕𐑯𐑪𐑛𐑣𐑧𐑛, 𐑩 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑤𐑻𐑯𐑛 𐑥𐑨𐑯, 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑓𐑧𐑕𐑼 𐑝 ·𐑤𐑴 ·𐑛𐑳𐑗 𐑯 ·𐑣𐑲 ·𐑡𐑻𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑡 𐑝 ·𐑕𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑩 ·𐑒𐑤𐑷𐑟 𐑯 ·𐑕𐑑 ·𐑐𐑪𐑑'𐑕, 𐑑 𐑣𐑵𐑥 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑒 𐑓 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑟𐑤𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑜𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑩 𐑚𐑪𐑒𐑕 𐑝 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑓 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑚𐑩𐑤—𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑕𐑱𐑥 ·𐑛𐑼 ·𐑕𐑯𐑪𐑛𐑣𐑧𐑛, 𐑕𐑴 𐑕𐑵𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑐𐑲𐑛 𐑞 𐑚𐑫𐑒, 𐑩𐑖𐑫𐑼𐑛 𐑥𐑰 𐑞𐑨𐑑 “𐑛𐑨𐑯 ·𐑒𐑵𐑐𐑥𐑩𐑯” 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑥𐑰𐑯 “𐑞 ·𐑒𐑵𐑐𐑼,” 𐑚𐑳𐑑 “𐑞 ·𐑥𐑻𐑗𐑩𐑯𐑑.” 𐑦𐑯 𐑖𐑹𐑑, 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑱𐑯𐑗𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑯 𐑤𐑻𐑯𐑛 ·𐑤𐑴 ·𐑛𐑳𐑗 𐑚𐑫𐑒 𐑑𐑮𐑰𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑻𐑕 𐑝 ·𐑣𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛; 𐑯, 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑕𐑳𐑚𐑡𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑕, 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑩 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑩𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑦. 𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟, 𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑩𐑛, “𐑕𐑥𐑽,” 𐑹 “𐑓𐑨𐑑,” 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑲 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑩 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑛𐑰𐑑𐑱𐑤𐑛 𐑤𐑦𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑬𐑑𐑓𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑓 𐑞 𐑤𐑸𐑛𐑼𐑟 𐑯 𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑼𐑟 𐑝 180 𐑕𐑱𐑤 𐑝 ·𐑛𐑳𐑗 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯; 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑤𐑦𐑕𐑑, 𐑨𐑟 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑟𐑤𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 ·𐑛𐑼 ·𐑕𐑯𐑪𐑛𐑣𐑧𐑛, 𐑲 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑚 𐑞 𐑓𐑪𐑤𐑴𐑦𐑙:</p>
    <p>400,000 𐑐𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑟. 𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑓. 60,000 𐑐𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑟. 𐑓𐑮𐑲𐑟𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑐𐑹𐑒. 150,000 𐑐𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑟. 𐑝 𐑕𐑑𐑪𐑒 𐑓𐑦𐑖. 550,000 𐑐𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑟. 𐑝 𐑚𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑦𐑑. 72,000 𐑐𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑟. 𐑝 𐑕𐑪𐑓𐑑 𐑚𐑮𐑧𐑛. 2,800 𐑓𐑻𐑒𐑦𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑚𐑳𐑑𐑼. 20,000 𐑐𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑟. ·𐑑𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑩𐑤 &amp; ·𐑤𐑱𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑗𐑰𐑟. 144,000 𐑐𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑟. 𐑗𐑰𐑟 (𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑚𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑽𐑽 𐑸𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤). 550 ·𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑼𐑟 𐑝 ·𐑡𐑦𐑯𐑰𐑝𐑩. 10,800 𐑚𐑨𐑮𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑝 𐑚𐑽.</p>
    <p>𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑑𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑑𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑸 𐑐𐑸𐑗𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑮𐑲 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑮𐑰𐑛𐑦𐑙; 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑴 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑒𐑱𐑕, 𐑣𐑬𐑧𐑝𐑼, 𐑢𐑺 𐑞 𐑮𐑰𐑛𐑼 𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑤𐑳𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑐𐑲𐑐𐑕, 𐑚𐑨𐑮𐑩𐑤𐑟, 𐑒𐑢𐑹𐑑𐑕, 𐑯 𐑜𐑦𐑤𐑟 𐑝 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑡𐑦𐑯 𐑯 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑗𐑽.</p>
    <p>𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑑𐑲𐑥, 𐑲 𐑛𐑦𐑝𐑴𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑛𐑱𐑟 𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑿𐑛𐑾𐑕 𐑛𐑲𐑡𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑚𐑽, 𐑚𐑰𐑓, 𐑯 𐑚𐑮𐑧𐑛, 𐑛𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑔𐑷𐑑𐑕 𐑢𐑻 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑩𐑡𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑑 𐑥𐑰, 𐑒𐑱𐑐𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑩 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑯 ·𐑐𐑤𐑩𐑑𐑪𐑯𐑦𐑒 𐑨𐑐𐑤𐑦𐑒𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯; 𐑯, 𐑓𐑻𐑞𐑼𐑥𐑹, 𐑲 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑲𐑤𐑛 𐑕𐑳𐑐𐑤𐑦𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑑𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑝 𐑥𐑲 𐑴𐑯, 𐑑𐑳𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑚𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑕𐑑𐑪𐑒-𐑓𐑦𐑖, 𐑧𐑑𐑕, 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑿𐑥𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 ·𐑤𐑴 ·𐑛𐑳𐑗 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑱𐑯𐑗𐑩𐑯𐑑 ·𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑯𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑯 ·𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑑𐑕𐑚𐑼𐑜𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑦. 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕, 𐑞 𐑩𐑥𐑬𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑚𐑳𐑑𐑼, 𐑯 ·𐑑𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑩𐑤 𐑯 ·𐑤𐑱𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑗𐑰𐑟 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑿𐑥𐑛, 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑟 𐑩𐑥𐑱𐑟𐑦𐑙. 𐑲 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑿𐑑 𐑦𐑑, 𐑞𐑴, 𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑯𐑨𐑗𐑼𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑳𐑙𐑒𐑗𐑵𐑩𐑕 𐑯𐑱𐑗𐑼𐑟, 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑮𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑛 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑥𐑹 𐑳𐑙𐑒𐑗𐑵𐑩𐑕 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑯𐑱𐑗𐑼 𐑝 𐑞𐑺 𐑝𐑴𐑒𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑯 𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑲 𐑞𐑺 𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑿𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑺 𐑜𐑱𐑥 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑓𐑮𐑦𐑡𐑦𐑛 ·𐑐𐑴𐑤𐑼 ·𐑕𐑰𐑟, 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑒𐑴𐑕𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑞𐑨𐑑 ·𐑧𐑕𐑒𐑦𐑥𐑴 𐑒𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑦 𐑢𐑺 𐑞 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑝𐑦𐑝𐑾𐑤 𐑯𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑝𐑟 𐑐𐑤𐑧𐑡 𐑰𐑗 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑚𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑼𐑟 𐑝 𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯 𐑶𐑤.</p>
    <p>𐑞 𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑚𐑽, 𐑑𐑵, 𐑦𐑟 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑤𐑸𐑡, 10,800 𐑚𐑨𐑮𐑩𐑤𐑟. 𐑯𐑬, 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑐𐑴𐑤𐑼 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑰 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑖𐑹𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑼 𐑝 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑒𐑤𐑲𐑥𐑩𐑑, 𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑟 𐑝 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞𐑰𐑟 ·𐑛𐑳𐑗 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑵𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑖𐑹𐑑 𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡 𐑑 𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑑𐑕𐑚𐑼𐑜𐑩𐑯 𐑕𐑰, 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑰𐑛 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑥𐑳𐑯𐑔𐑕, 𐑕𐑱, 𐑯 𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑙 30 𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑑 𐑰𐑗 𐑝 𐑞𐑺 𐑓𐑤𐑰𐑑 𐑝 180 𐑕𐑱𐑤, 𐑢𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑝 5,400 ·𐑤𐑴 ·𐑛𐑳𐑗 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑷𐑤; 𐑞𐑺𐑓𐑹, 𐑲 𐑕𐑱, 𐑢𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑲𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑑𐑵 𐑚𐑨𐑮𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑝 𐑚𐑽 𐑐𐑻 𐑥𐑨𐑯, 𐑓 𐑩 𐑑𐑢𐑧𐑤𐑝 𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑕' 𐑩𐑤𐑬𐑩𐑯𐑕, 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑒𐑤𐑵𐑕𐑦𐑝 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑺 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑐𐑹𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑞𐑨𐑑 550 ·𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑼𐑟 𐑝 𐑡𐑦𐑯. 𐑯𐑬, 𐑢𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑡𐑦𐑯 𐑯 𐑚𐑽 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽𐑟, 𐑕𐑴 𐑓𐑳𐑛𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑓𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑦 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯, 𐑢𐑻 𐑞 𐑮𐑲𐑑 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑳𐑐 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑚𐑴𐑑'𐑕 𐑣𐑧𐑛, 𐑯 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑱𐑥 𐑨𐑑 𐑓𐑤𐑲𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟; 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑕𐑰𐑥 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑚𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤. 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑞𐑱 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑱𐑥 𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑥, 𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑑𐑵. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑓𐑸 ·𐑯𐑹𐑔, 𐑚𐑰 𐑦𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑧𐑥𐑚𐑼𐑛, 𐑢𐑺 𐑚𐑽 𐑩𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑟 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑖𐑩𐑯; 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑦𐑒𐑢𐑱𐑑𐑼, 𐑦𐑯 𐑬𐑼 𐑕𐑳𐑞𐑼𐑯 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑦, 𐑚𐑽 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑚𐑰 𐑨𐑐𐑑 𐑑 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑞 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐𐑦 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑-𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑯 𐑚𐑵𐑟𐑦 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑴𐑑; 𐑯 𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑕 𐑤𐑪𐑕 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑿 𐑑 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑 𐑯 ·𐑯𐑿 ·𐑚𐑧𐑛𐑓𐑼𐑛.</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑯𐑴 𐑥𐑹; 𐑦𐑯𐑳𐑓 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑑 𐑖𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑛𐑳𐑗 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑼𐑟 𐑝 𐑑𐑵 𐑹 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑗𐑼𐑦𐑟 𐑩𐑜𐑴 𐑢𐑻 𐑣𐑲 𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑼𐑟; 𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑤𐑦𐑖 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑼𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑯𐑦𐑜𐑤𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑕𐑴 𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑭𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑤. 𐑓, 𐑕𐑱 𐑞𐑱, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑩𐑯 𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑑𐑦 𐑖𐑦𐑐, 𐑦𐑓 𐑿 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑜𐑧𐑑 𐑯𐑳𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑧𐑑𐑼 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛, 𐑜𐑧𐑑 𐑩 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑼 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑦𐑑, 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑰𐑕𐑑. 𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑼.</p>
  </body>
</html>
