<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Chapter 41</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="chapter-41" xml:lang="en-US">
      <h2 id="chapterheader-41">·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 41. 𐑥𐑪𐑚𐑦 ·𐑛𐑦𐑒.</h2>
    </div>
    <p>𐑲, ·𐑦𐑖𐑥𐑱𐑩𐑤, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑒𐑮𐑵; 𐑥𐑲 𐑖𐑬𐑑𐑕 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑜𐑪𐑯 𐑳𐑐 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑; 𐑥𐑲 𐑴𐑔 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑢𐑧𐑤𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑺𐑟; 𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑪𐑙𐑜𐑼 𐑲 𐑖𐑬𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑯 𐑥𐑹 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑥𐑼 𐑯 𐑒𐑤𐑦𐑯𐑗 𐑥𐑲 𐑴𐑔, 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑪𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑛𐑮𐑧𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑲 𐑕𐑴𐑤. 𐑩 𐑢𐑲𐑤𐑛, 𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤, 𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑔𐑧𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑓𐑰𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑰; ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚'𐑟 𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑗𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑓𐑿𐑛 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑥𐑲𐑯. 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑛𐑦 𐑽𐑟 𐑲 𐑤𐑻𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑝 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑻𐑛𐑼𐑩𐑕 𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑼 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑵𐑥 𐑲 𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑬𐑼 𐑴𐑞𐑟 𐑝 𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑡.</p>
    <p>𐑓 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑐𐑭𐑕𐑑, 𐑞𐑴 𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦, 𐑞 𐑳𐑯𐑩𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑛, 𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑵𐑛𐑩𐑛 ·𐑢𐑲𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑣𐑷𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑳𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑤𐑲𐑟𐑛 𐑕𐑰𐑟 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑮𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑥𐑧𐑯. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑝 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑯𐑿 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕; 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑩 𐑓𐑿 𐑝 𐑞𐑧𐑥, 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑨𐑮𐑩𐑑𐑦𐑝𐑤𐑦, 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑯𐑴𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑰𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥; 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑞 𐑯𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑼 𐑣𐑵 𐑨𐑟 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑨𐑒𐑗𐑵𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑯 𐑯𐑴𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑜𐑦𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑚𐑨𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑰𐑛. 𐑓, 𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑞 𐑤𐑸𐑡 𐑯𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑼 𐑝 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑟𐑼𐑟; 𐑞 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑹𐑛𐑼𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑱 𐑞𐑱 𐑢𐑻 𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑲𐑼 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑕𐑼𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑓𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑕, 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑝 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑩𐑛𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑗𐑼𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑫𐑖𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑺 𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑕𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑤𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛𐑟, 𐑕𐑴 𐑨𐑟 𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑛𐑩𐑥 𐑹 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑓 𐑩 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑑𐑢𐑧𐑤𐑝𐑥𐑳𐑯𐑔 𐑹 𐑥𐑹 𐑪𐑯 𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑗, 𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑼 𐑩 𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑩𐑤 𐑯𐑿𐑟-𐑑𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑱𐑤 𐑝 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑕𐑹𐑑; 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑹𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑑 𐑤𐑧𐑙𐑔 𐑝 𐑰𐑗 𐑕𐑧𐑐𐑼𐑩𐑑 𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡; 𐑞 𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑜𐑿𐑤𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑞 𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑝 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑴𐑥; 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑰𐑟, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟, 𐑛𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑑 𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑑, 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑩𐑚𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑞 𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑛 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛-𐑢𐑲𐑛 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙-𐑓𐑤𐑰𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑡𐑵𐑩𐑤𐑲𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑑𐑲𐑛𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 ·𐑥𐑪𐑚𐑦 ·𐑛𐑦𐑒. 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑣𐑸𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑛𐑬𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑝𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑹𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑛, 𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑹 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑑𐑲𐑥, 𐑹 𐑪𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑹 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑥𐑼𐑦𐑛𐑾𐑯, 𐑩 ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑝 𐑳𐑯𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑥𐑨𐑜𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛 𐑯 𐑥𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑦, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑛𐑵𐑦𐑙 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑗𐑦𐑓 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑩𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕, 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑰𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑱𐑐𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑥; 𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑩𐑯 𐑳𐑯𐑓𐑺 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑲 𐑕𐑱, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑕𐑗𐑩𐑯 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑯𐑴 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑯 ·𐑥𐑪𐑚𐑦 ·𐑛𐑦𐑒. 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑝 𐑤𐑱𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑦 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑥𐑸𐑒𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑝𐑺𐑾𐑕 𐑯 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑳𐑯𐑓𐑮𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑝 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑓𐑼𐑪𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑦, 𐑒𐑳𐑯𐑦𐑙, 𐑯 𐑥𐑨𐑤𐑦𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑼 𐑩𐑑𐑨𐑒𐑑; 𐑞𐑺𐑓𐑹 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑣𐑵 𐑚𐑲 𐑨𐑒𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑜𐑱𐑝 𐑚𐑨𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑑 ·𐑥𐑪𐑚𐑦 ·𐑛𐑦𐑒; 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑟, 𐑐𐑼𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑕, 𐑓 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑐𐑸𐑑, 𐑢𐑻 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑑 𐑩𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑚 𐑞 𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑽 𐑑𐑧𐑮𐑼 𐑣𐑰 𐑚𐑮𐑧𐑛, 𐑥𐑹, 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑻, 𐑑 𐑞 𐑐𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑦 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑸𐑡, 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑑 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑡𐑵𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑷𐑟. 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑱, 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑𐑤𐑦, 𐑞 𐑛𐑦𐑟𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑕 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑼 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑢𐑰𐑯 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑞𐑼𐑑𐑵 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑐𐑪𐑐𐑿𐑤𐑼𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑸𐑛𐑩𐑛.</p>
    <p>𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑓 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑣𐑵, 𐑐𐑮𐑰𐑝𐑾𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑽𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑢𐑲𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑚𐑲 𐑗𐑭𐑯𐑕 𐑒𐑷𐑑 𐑕𐑲𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑥; 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑞 𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑱 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞𐑧𐑥, 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑, 𐑨𐑟 𐑚𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑯 𐑓𐑽𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑴𐑼𐑛 𐑓 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑨𐑟 𐑓 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑝 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑖𐑰𐑟. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑧𐑙𐑔, 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑨𐑥𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑿 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑩𐑕𐑷𐑤𐑑𐑕—𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑕 𐑯 𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑟, 𐑚𐑮𐑴𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑤𐑦𐑥𐑟, 𐑹 𐑛𐑦𐑝𐑬𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑥𐑐𐑿𐑑𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟—𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑓𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑑 𐑞 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑜𐑮𐑰 𐑝 𐑓𐑩𐑑𐑨𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑦; 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑰𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑛𐑦𐑟𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑕 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑳𐑤𐑕𐑩𐑟, 𐑷𐑤 𐑩𐑒𐑿𐑥𐑿𐑤𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑯 𐑐𐑲𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑺 𐑑𐑧𐑮𐑼𐑟 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 ·𐑥𐑪𐑚𐑦 ·𐑛𐑦𐑒; 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑜𐑪𐑯 𐑓𐑸 𐑑 𐑖𐑱𐑒 𐑞 𐑓𐑹𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛 𐑝 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑝 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑟, 𐑑 𐑣𐑵𐑥 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑦 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑢𐑲𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑦𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑗𐑵𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑳𐑥.</p>
    <p>𐑯𐑹 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑢𐑲𐑤𐑛 𐑮𐑵𐑥𐑼𐑟 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑕𐑹𐑑𐑕 𐑓𐑱𐑤 𐑑 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑨𐑡𐑼𐑱𐑑, 𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑞 𐑥𐑹 𐑣𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑓𐑲 𐑞 𐑑𐑮𐑵 𐑣𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑦𐑟 𐑝 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑛𐑧𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑟. 𐑓 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑵 𐑓𐑨𐑚𐑿𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑮𐑵𐑥𐑼𐑟 𐑯𐑨𐑗𐑼𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑜𐑮𐑴 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑕𐑼𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑑𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑕,—𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑕𐑥𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑑𐑮𐑰 𐑜𐑦𐑝𐑟 𐑚𐑻𐑔 𐑑 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑓𐑳𐑙𐑜𐑲; 𐑚𐑳𐑑, 𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑤𐑲𐑓, 𐑓𐑸 𐑥𐑹 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑝 𐑑𐑧𐑮𐑩 𐑓𐑻𐑥𐑩, 𐑢𐑲𐑤𐑛 𐑮𐑵𐑥𐑼𐑟 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑯𐑛, 𐑢𐑺𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑞𐑺 𐑦𐑟 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑨𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑢𐑩𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑨𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑓 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑑 𐑒𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑑. 𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑕𐑰 𐑕𐑼𐑐𐑭𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑞 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑼, 𐑕𐑴 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑦 𐑕𐑼𐑐𐑭𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑥𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑤𐑲𐑓, 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑯 𐑓𐑽𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑮𐑵𐑥𐑼𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑱𐑑 𐑞𐑺. 𐑓 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑸 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦 𐑳𐑯𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑯 𐑕𐑵𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑕𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑣𐑼𐑧𐑛𐑦𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼𐑟; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼𐑟, 𐑞𐑱 𐑸 𐑚𐑲 𐑷𐑤 𐑪𐑛𐑟 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑮𐑷𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑨𐑒𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑢𐑪𐑑𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑦𐑟 𐑩𐑐𐑷𐑤𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑕𐑑𐑪𐑯𐑦𐑖𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑰; 𐑓𐑱𐑕 𐑑 𐑓𐑱𐑕 𐑞𐑱 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑲 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑸𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑟, 𐑚𐑳𐑑, 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑡𐑷, 𐑜𐑦𐑝 𐑚𐑨𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑥. 𐑩𐑤𐑴𐑯, 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑴𐑑𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼𐑟, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑴 𐑿 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑛 𐑩 𐑔𐑬𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑥𐑲𐑤𐑟, 𐑯 𐑐𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑩 𐑔𐑬𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑖𐑹𐑟, 𐑿 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑑 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑗𐑦𐑟𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑣𐑸𐑔-𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑯, 𐑹 𐑷𐑑 𐑣𐑪𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑚𐑦𐑯𐑰𐑔 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑯; 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑤𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛𐑟 𐑯 𐑤𐑪𐑯𐑜𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛𐑟, 𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑿𐑦𐑙 𐑑𐑵 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑛𐑳𐑟, 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑟 𐑮𐑨𐑐𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑤𐑵𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑷𐑤 𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑦 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑜𐑯𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑩 𐑥𐑲𐑑𐑦 𐑚𐑻𐑔.</p>
    <p>𐑯𐑴 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼, 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑜𐑨𐑞𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑝𐑪𐑤𐑿𐑥 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑥𐑽 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑟𐑦𐑑 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 𐑢𐑲𐑛𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑕𐑐𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑟, 𐑞 𐑬𐑑𐑚𐑤𐑴𐑯 𐑮𐑵𐑥𐑼𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑢𐑲𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑹𐑐𐑼𐑱𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑧𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑝𐑟 𐑷𐑤 𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑼 𐑝 𐑥𐑹𐑚𐑦𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑕, 𐑯 𐑣𐑭𐑓-𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑛 𐑓𐑰𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑩𐑡𐑧𐑕𐑗𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑕𐑵𐑐𐑼𐑯𐑨𐑗𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑱𐑡𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑟, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑦𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑗𐑵𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛 ·𐑥𐑪𐑚𐑦 ·𐑛𐑦𐑒 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑯𐑿 𐑑𐑧𐑮𐑼𐑟 𐑳𐑯𐑚𐑪𐑮𐑴𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑧𐑯𐑦𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑝𐑦𐑟𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑐𐑽𐑟. 𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑒𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑐𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑒 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑣𐑰 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑒, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑓𐑿 𐑣𐑵 𐑚𐑲 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑮𐑵𐑥𐑼𐑟, 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑰𐑕𐑑, 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑣𐑻𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑢𐑲𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑓𐑿 𐑝 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑢𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑼 𐑞 𐑐𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑟 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑡𐑷.</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑻 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑯 𐑥𐑹 𐑝𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑐𐑮𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑤𐑵𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑻𐑒. 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑛𐑱 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑼𐑦𐑡𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑠 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑨𐑟 𐑓𐑽𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑢𐑦𐑖𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑷𐑤 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑖𐑰𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯, 𐑛𐑲𐑛 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦. 𐑞𐑺 𐑸 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑛𐑱 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑞𐑧𐑥, 𐑣𐑵, 𐑞𐑴 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑯 𐑒𐑼𐑱𐑡𐑩𐑕 𐑦𐑯𐑳𐑓 𐑦𐑯 𐑪𐑓𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑨𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑯𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑹 ·𐑮𐑲𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑐𐑼𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑕—𐑲𐑞𐑼 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑓𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑽𐑾𐑯𐑕, 𐑹 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑐𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦, 𐑹 𐑑𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑦𐑑𐑦, 𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑲𐑯 𐑩 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤; 𐑨𐑑 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑮𐑱𐑑, 𐑞𐑺 𐑸 𐑐𐑤𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑯𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑞 ·𐑩𐑥𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑓𐑤𐑨𐑜, 𐑣𐑵 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑣𐑪𐑕𐑑𐑲𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑛 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑣𐑵𐑟 𐑕𐑴𐑤 𐑯𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑡 𐑝 𐑞 𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑟 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑑 𐑞 𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑴𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑼 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑝𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑿𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑯𐑹𐑔; 𐑕𐑰𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑪𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑣𐑨𐑗𐑩𐑟, 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑣𐑸𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑗𐑲𐑤𐑛𐑦𐑖 𐑓𐑲𐑼𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑯 𐑷, 𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑲𐑤𐑛, 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡 𐑑𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑝 ·𐑕𐑳𐑞𐑼𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙. 𐑯𐑹 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑰-𐑧𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑕𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑧𐑯𐑦𐑢𐑺 𐑥𐑹 𐑓𐑰𐑤𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑣𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛, 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑪𐑯 𐑚𐑹𐑛 𐑝 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑐𐑮𐑬𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑥.</p>
    <p>𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑓 𐑞 𐑯𐑬 𐑑𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑮𐑦𐑨𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑼 𐑤𐑧𐑡𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑦 𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑔𐑮𐑴𐑯 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑖𐑨𐑛𐑴 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑦𐑑; 𐑢𐑰 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑚𐑫𐑒 𐑯𐑨𐑗𐑼𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑕—·𐑴𐑤𐑨𐑕𐑩𐑯 𐑯 ·𐑐𐑴𐑝𐑤𐑕𐑩𐑯—𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑺𐑦𐑙 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑩 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑯𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑑 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑗𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑰, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑷𐑤𐑕𐑴 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑕𐑴 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑼𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑕 𐑨𐑟 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑿𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑩𐑔𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑓 𐑣𐑿𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑛. 𐑯𐑹 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑑 𐑕𐑴 𐑤𐑱𐑑 𐑩 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑨𐑟 ·𐑒𐑿𐑝𐑽'𐑟, 𐑢𐑻 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑹 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑤𐑼 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑦𐑓𐑱𐑕𐑑. 𐑓 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 ·𐑯𐑨𐑗𐑼𐑩𐑤 ·𐑣𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑦, 𐑞 ·𐑚𐑨𐑮𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑩𐑓𐑻𐑥𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑲𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑷𐑤 𐑓𐑦𐑖 (𐑖𐑸𐑒𐑕 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑵𐑛𐑩𐑛) 𐑸 “𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑒 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑝𐑤𐑦 𐑑𐑧𐑮𐑼𐑟,” 𐑯 “𐑪𐑓𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑦𐑐𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦 𐑝 𐑞𐑺 𐑓𐑤𐑲𐑑 𐑛𐑨𐑖 𐑞𐑧𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑝𐑟 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑞 𐑮𐑪𐑒𐑕 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑨𐑟 𐑑 𐑒𐑷𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑱𐑯𐑾𐑕 𐑛𐑧𐑔.” 𐑯 𐑣𐑬𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑞 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑽𐑾𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑦 𐑥𐑱 𐑩𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑹𐑑𐑕 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑰𐑟; 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑓𐑫𐑤 𐑑𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑯𐑩𐑕, 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑛𐑔𐑻𐑕𐑑𐑦 𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑥 𐑝 ·𐑐𐑴𐑝𐑤𐑕𐑩𐑯, 𐑞 𐑕𐑵𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑕 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑰𐑓 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑦𐑟, 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑝𐑦𐑕𐑦𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛𐑟 𐑝 𐑞𐑺 𐑝𐑴𐑒𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑲𐑝𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑟.</p>
    <p>𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑴𐑝𐑼𐑷𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑮𐑵𐑥𐑼𐑟 𐑯 𐑐𐑹𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑩 𐑓𐑿 𐑝 𐑞 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛, 𐑦𐑯 𐑮𐑧𐑓𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑑 ·𐑥𐑪𐑚𐑦 ·𐑛𐑦𐑒, 𐑞 𐑻𐑤𐑽 𐑛𐑱𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑦, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑪𐑓𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑣𐑸𐑛 𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑿𐑕 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑐𐑮𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑦𐑕𐑑 ·𐑮𐑲𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑑 𐑦𐑥𐑚𐑸𐑒 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑟 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑯𐑿 𐑯 𐑛𐑺𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑹𐑓𐑺; 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑑𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤𐑞𐑴 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑣𐑴𐑐𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑿𐑛, 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑑 𐑗𐑱𐑕 𐑯 𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕 𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩𐑯 𐑨𐑐𐑼𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑓 𐑥𐑹𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑥𐑨𐑯. 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑑 𐑩𐑑𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑑 𐑦𐑑, 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑚𐑰 𐑦𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑑𐑹𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑩 𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑒 𐑦𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑦. 𐑪𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑣𐑧𐑛, 𐑞𐑺 𐑸 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑸𐑒𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑛𐑪𐑒𐑿𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑱 𐑚𐑰 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑳𐑤𐑑𐑩𐑛.</p>
    <p>𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑞𐑩𐑤𐑧𐑕, 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑻, 𐑣𐑵 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑱𐑕 𐑝 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑦 𐑑 𐑜𐑦𐑝 𐑗𐑱𐑕 𐑑 ·𐑥𐑪𐑚𐑦 ·𐑛𐑦𐑒; 𐑯 𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑼 𐑯𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑼 𐑣𐑵, 𐑗𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑑 𐑣𐑽 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑯 𐑝𐑱𐑜𐑤𐑦, 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑐𐑩𐑕𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒 𐑛𐑰𐑑𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑝 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑨𐑥𐑦𐑑𐑦, 𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑 𐑕𐑵𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑕 𐑩𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕, 𐑢𐑻 𐑕𐑩𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑸𐑛𐑦 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑑 𐑓𐑤𐑰 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑚𐑨𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑓 𐑪𐑓𐑼𐑛.</p>
    <p>𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑲𐑤𐑛 𐑕𐑩𐑡𐑧𐑕𐑗𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑮𐑦𐑓𐑻𐑛 𐑑, 𐑨𐑟 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑤𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 ·𐑢𐑲𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑵𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑛, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑳𐑯𐑻𐑔𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑰𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 ·𐑥𐑪𐑚𐑦 ·𐑛𐑦𐑒 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑿𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑕; 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑨𐑒𐑗𐑵𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑪𐑐𐑩𐑟𐑦𐑑 𐑤𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛𐑟 𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑑𐑲𐑥.</p>
    <p>𐑯𐑹, 𐑒𐑮𐑧𐑡𐑵𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑨𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑰𐑑 𐑷𐑤𐑑𐑩𐑜𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑓𐑱𐑯𐑑 𐑖𐑴 𐑝 𐑕𐑵𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑕 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑚𐑩𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑦. 𐑓 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑕𐑰𐑒𐑮𐑩𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑒𐑳𐑮𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑰𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑛𐑲𐑝𐑳𐑤𐑡𐑛, 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑑 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑧𐑮𐑫𐑛𐑲𐑑 𐑮𐑰𐑕𐑻𐑗; 𐑕𐑴 𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑯𐑰𐑔 𐑞 𐑕𐑻𐑓𐑦𐑕 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑱𐑯, 𐑦𐑯 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑐𐑸𐑑, 𐑳𐑯𐑩𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑿𐑼𐑟; 𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑑 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑼𐑦𐑡𐑦𐑯𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑾𐑕 𐑯 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑸𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑧𐑥, 𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑥𐑴𐑛𐑟 𐑢𐑺𐑚𐑲, 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑕𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑩 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑛𐑧𐑐𐑔, 𐑣𐑰 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑐𐑹𐑑𐑕 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑝𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑑 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑲𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑𐑕.</p>
    <p>𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑩 𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑯𐑴𐑯 𐑑 𐑚𐑴𐑔 ·𐑩𐑥𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑯 ·𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑤𐑦𐑖 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑕, 𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑩 𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕𐑑 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑷𐑔𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑑𐑦𐑝 𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑹𐑛 𐑘𐑽𐑟 𐑩𐑜𐑴 𐑚𐑲 ·𐑕𐑒𐑹𐑟𐑚𐑦, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑗𐑼𐑛 𐑓𐑸 𐑯𐑹𐑔 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑩𐑕𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒, 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑵𐑟 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑚𐑸𐑚𐑟 𐑝 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑟 𐑛𐑸𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑯𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑕𐑰𐑟. 𐑯𐑹 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑧𐑛, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑝 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑺𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑝𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑢𐑰𐑯 𐑞 𐑑𐑵 𐑩𐑕𐑷𐑤𐑑𐑕 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑰𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑛𐑱𐑟. 𐑣𐑧𐑯𐑕, 𐑚𐑲 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑕, 𐑦𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑰𐑝𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑯𐑹' ·𐑢𐑧𐑕𐑑 ·𐑐𐑨𐑕𐑦𐑡, 𐑕𐑴 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑩 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑚𐑤𐑩𐑥 𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑯, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑩 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑚𐑤𐑩𐑥 𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤. 𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑽, 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑮𐑾𐑤 𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑽𐑾𐑯𐑕 𐑝 𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑛𐑦𐑡𐑦𐑟 𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑤𐑴 𐑥𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑐𐑹𐑗𐑩𐑜𐑩𐑤 (𐑯𐑽 𐑣𐑵𐑟 𐑑𐑪𐑐 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑩 𐑤𐑱𐑒 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑞 𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑕 𐑝 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑕 𐑓𐑤𐑴𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑳𐑐 𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑻𐑓𐑦𐑕); 𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑥𐑹 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑦 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑱𐑮𐑰𐑞𐑳𐑕𐑩 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑯𐑽 ·𐑕𐑲𐑮𐑩𐑒𐑿𐑟 (𐑣𐑵𐑟 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑰𐑝𐑛 𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 ·𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑦 ·𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑩𐑯 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑜𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑐𐑨𐑕𐑦𐑡); 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑓𐑨𐑚𐑿𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑯𐑼𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑸 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑓𐑫𐑤𐑦 𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑨𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯.</p>
    <p>𐑓𐑹𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑓𐑩𐑥𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑦, 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑛𐑦𐑡𐑦𐑟 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑰𐑟; 𐑯 𐑯𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑰𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑐𐑦𐑛 𐑩𐑕𐑷𐑤𐑑𐑕, 𐑞 ·𐑢𐑲𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑱𐑐𐑑 𐑩𐑤𐑲𐑝; 𐑦𐑑 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑼 𐑝 𐑕𐑼𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑜𐑴 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑓𐑻𐑞𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑕𐑵𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟; 𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑺𐑦𐑙 ·𐑥𐑪𐑚𐑦 ·𐑛𐑦𐑒 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑿𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑕, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑥𐑹𐑑𐑩𐑤 (𐑓 𐑦𐑥𐑹𐑑𐑨𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑿𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑦𐑯 𐑑𐑲𐑥); 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑴 𐑜𐑮𐑴𐑝𐑟 𐑝 𐑕𐑐𐑽𐑟 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑚𐑰 𐑐𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑤𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑕, 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑥 𐑩𐑢𐑱 𐑳𐑯𐑣𐑸𐑥𐑛; 𐑹 𐑦𐑓 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑰𐑛 𐑣𐑰 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑚𐑰 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑬𐑑 𐑔𐑦𐑒 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑛, 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑕𐑲𐑑 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑚𐑰 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 𐑜𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑧𐑐𐑖𐑩𐑯; 𐑓 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑳𐑯𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑨𐑙𐑜𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑴𐑟 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑛𐑟 𐑝 𐑤𐑰𐑜𐑟 𐑩𐑢𐑱, 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑳𐑯𐑕𐑳𐑤𐑦𐑛 𐑡𐑧𐑑 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕 𐑥𐑹 𐑚𐑰 𐑕𐑰𐑯.</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑑 𐑝 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑕𐑵𐑐𐑼𐑯𐑨𐑗𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑼𐑥𐑲𐑟𐑦𐑙𐑟, 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑳𐑓 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑻𐑔𐑤𐑦 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑨𐑮𐑩𐑒𐑑𐑼 𐑝 𐑞 𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑼 𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑒 𐑞 𐑦𐑥𐑨𐑡𐑦𐑯𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑳𐑯𐑢𐑴𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑐𐑬𐑼. 𐑓, 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑴 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑳𐑯𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑚𐑳𐑤𐑒 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑴 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑢𐑦𐑖𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟, 𐑚𐑳𐑑, 𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑧𐑤𐑕𐑢𐑺 𐑔𐑮𐑴𐑯 𐑬𐑑—𐑩 𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑽 𐑕𐑯𐑴-𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑓𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑛, 𐑯 𐑩 𐑣𐑲, 𐑐𐑦𐑮𐑩𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑣𐑳𐑥𐑐. 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑓𐑰𐑗𐑼𐑟; 𐑞 𐑑𐑴𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑢𐑺𐑚𐑲, 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑤𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑑𐑤𐑩𐑕, 𐑳𐑯𐑗𐑸𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑕𐑰𐑟, 𐑣𐑰 𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑰𐑤𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑲𐑛𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑦, 𐑨𐑑 𐑩 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕, 𐑑 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑣𐑵 𐑯𐑿 𐑣𐑦𐑥.</p>
    <p>𐑞 𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑴 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑰𐑒𐑑, 𐑯 𐑕𐑐𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑯 𐑥𐑸𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑖𐑮𐑬𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑿, 𐑞𐑨𐑑, 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑧𐑯𐑛, 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑑𐑦𐑝 𐑨𐑐𐑩𐑤𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑢𐑲𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤; 𐑩 𐑯𐑱𐑥, 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑰𐑛, 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑼𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑓𐑲𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑝𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑛 𐑨𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑑, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑕𐑰𐑯 𐑜𐑤𐑲𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑲 𐑯𐑵𐑯 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑩 𐑛𐑸𐑒 𐑚𐑤𐑵 𐑕𐑰, 𐑤𐑰𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑥𐑦𐑤𐑒𐑦-𐑢𐑱 𐑢𐑱𐑒 𐑝 𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑥𐑦 𐑓𐑴𐑥, 𐑷𐑤 𐑕𐑐𐑨𐑙𐑜𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑜𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑜𐑤𐑰𐑥𐑦𐑙𐑟.</p>
    <p>𐑯𐑹 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑳𐑯𐑢𐑴𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑥𐑨𐑜𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛, 𐑯𐑹 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑸𐑒𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑣𐑿, 𐑯𐑹 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑛 𐑤𐑴𐑼 𐑡𐑷, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑴 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑯𐑨𐑗𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑑𐑧𐑮𐑼, 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑳𐑯𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑭𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑤𐑛, 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑥𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑢𐑦𐑗, 𐑩𐑒𐑹𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑩𐑕𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒 𐑩𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑕, 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑯 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯 𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑩𐑕𐑷𐑤𐑑𐑕. 𐑥𐑹 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑷𐑤, 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑗𐑼𐑩𐑕 𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑮𐑰𐑑𐑕 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑒 𐑥𐑹 𐑝 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑥𐑱 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑐𐑼𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑕 𐑷𐑑 𐑧𐑤𐑕. 𐑓, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑳𐑤𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑿𐑼𐑟, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑩𐑐𐑨𐑮𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑑𐑩𐑥 𐑝 𐑩𐑤𐑸𐑥, 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑕𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑯𐑴𐑯 𐑑 𐑑𐑻𐑯 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑕𐑳𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦, 𐑯, 𐑚𐑺𐑦𐑙 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑥, 𐑲𐑞𐑼 𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑝 𐑞𐑺 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕 𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑤𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑟, 𐑹 𐑛𐑮𐑲𐑝 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑚𐑨𐑒 𐑦𐑯 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑯𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑖𐑦𐑐.</p>
    <p>𐑷𐑤𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑦 𐑕𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑓𐑩𐑑𐑨𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑩𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑗𐑱𐑕. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑴 𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑤𐑼 𐑛𐑦𐑟𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑟, 𐑣𐑬𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑚𐑮𐑵𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑩𐑖𐑹, 𐑢𐑻 𐑚𐑲 𐑯𐑴 𐑥𐑰𐑯𐑟 𐑳𐑯𐑿𐑠𐑵𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑦; 𐑘𐑧𐑑, 𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟, 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑞 ·𐑢𐑲𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤'𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑻𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑩𐑓𐑹𐑔𐑷𐑑 𐑝 𐑓𐑼𐑪𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑦, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑥𐑧𐑥𐑚𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑹 𐑛𐑧𐑔 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑷𐑟𐑛, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑸𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑤𐑦𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑩𐑯 𐑳𐑯𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑱𐑡𐑩𐑯𐑑.</p>
    <p>𐑡𐑳𐑡, 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑐𐑦𐑗𐑩𐑟 𐑝 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑤𐑱𐑥𐑛, 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑓𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑦 𐑞 𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑹 𐑛𐑧𐑕𐑐𐑼𐑩𐑑 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑧𐑤𐑛, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑩𐑥𐑦𐑛 𐑞 𐑗𐑦𐑐𐑕 𐑝 𐑗𐑵𐑛 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑦𐑥𐑟 𐑝 𐑑𐑹𐑯 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑮𐑱𐑛𐑟, 𐑞𐑱 𐑕𐑢𐑨𐑥 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑒𐑻𐑛𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤'𐑟 𐑛𐑲𐑼𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑮𐑪𐑔 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑕𐑼𐑰𐑯, 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑨𐑕𐑐𐑼𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑳𐑯𐑤𐑲𐑑, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑥𐑲𐑤𐑛 𐑪𐑯, 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑓 𐑨𐑑 𐑩 𐑚𐑻𐑔 𐑹 𐑩 𐑚𐑮𐑲𐑛𐑩𐑤.</p>
    <p>𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕 𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑝 𐑼𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑯 𐑹𐑟 𐑯 𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑚𐑴𐑔 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑧𐑛𐑦𐑟; 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯, 𐑕𐑰𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑤𐑲𐑯-𐑯𐑲𐑓 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑮𐑴𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑬, 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑛𐑨𐑖𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑨𐑟 𐑩𐑯 ·𐑸𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑷 𐑛𐑿𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑕𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑴, 𐑚𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑰𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑕 𐑦𐑯𐑗 𐑚𐑤𐑱𐑛 𐑑 𐑮𐑰𐑗 𐑞 𐑓𐑨𐑞𐑩𐑥-𐑛𐑰𐑐 𐑤𐑲𐑓 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤. 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑟 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚. 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑢𐑰𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤-𐑖𐑱𐑐𐑑 𐑤𐑴𐑼 𐑡𐑷 𐑚𐑦𐑯𐑰𐑔 𐑣𐑦𐑥, ·𐑥𐑪𐑚𐑦 ·𐑛𐑦𐑒 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑮𐑰𐑐𐑑 𐑩𐑢𐑱 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚'𐑟 𐑤𐑧𐑜, 𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑥𐑴𐑼 𐑩 𐑚𐑤𐑱𐑛 𐑝 𐑜𐑮𐑭𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑰𐑤𐑛. 𐑯𐑴 𐑑𐑻𐑚𐑩𐑯𐑛 ·𐑑𐑻𐑒, 𐑯𐑴 𐑣𐑲𐑼𐑛 ·𐑝𐑩𐑯𐑰𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑹 ·𐑥𐑩𐑤𐑱, 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑕𐑥𐑴𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑥𐑹 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑨𐑤𐑦𐑕. 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤 𐑮𐑰𐑟𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞𐑺 𐑑 𐑛𐑬𐑑, 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑕 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑓𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑼, ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑗𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑖𐑑 𐑩 𐑢𐑲𐑤𐑛 𐑝𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑑𐑦𐑝𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑥𐑹 𐑓𐑧𐑤 𐑓 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑥𐑹𐑚𐑦𐑛𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑣𐑰 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑑 𐑲𐑛𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑓𐑲 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑴𐑟, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑧𐑒𐑗𐑵𐑩𐑤 𐑯 𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑮𐑦𐑗𐑵𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑨𐑕𐑐𐑼𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟. 𐑞 ·𐑢𐑲𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑕𐑢𐑨𐑥 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑩𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑦𐑨𐑒 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑸𐑯𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑥𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑕 𐑱𐑡𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑛𐑰𐑐 𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑓𐑰𐑤 𐑰𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑥, 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑞𐑱 𐑸 𐑤𐑧𐑓𐑑 𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑭𐑓 𐑩 𐑣𐑸𐑑 𐑯 𐑣𐑭𐑓 𐑩 𐑤𐑳𐑙. 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑡𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑥𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑙; 𐑑 𐑣𐑵𐑟 𐑛𐑩𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑾𐑯 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑪𐑛𐑼𐑯 ·𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑗𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑩𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑚 𐑢𐑳𐑯-𐑣𐑭𐑓 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛𐑟; 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑞 𐑱𐑯𐑗𐑩𐑯𐑑 ·𐑪𐑓𐑲𐑑𐑰𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑰𐑕𐑑 𐑮𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑗𐑿 𐑛𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤;—·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑓𐑷𐑤 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑯 𐑢𐑻𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑦𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞𐑧𐑥; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑽𐑾𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑓𐑻𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑲𐑛𐑾 𐑑 𐑞 𐑩𐑚𐑣𐑹𐑛 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑣𐑰 𐑐𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓, 𐑷𐑤 𐑥𐑿𐑑𐑦𐑤𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑑. 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑯 𐑑𐑹𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑕; 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑻𐑟 𐑳𐑐 𐑞 𐑤𐑰𐑟 𐑝 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑟; 𐑷𐑤 𐑑𐑮𐑵𐑔 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑤𐑦𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑦𐑑; 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑒𐑮𐑨𐑒𐑕 𐑞 𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑿𐑟 𐑯 𐑒𐑱𐑒𐑕 𐑞 𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑯; 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑛𐑰𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑟𐑩𐑥𐑟 𐑝 𐑤𐑲𐑓 𐑯 𐑔𐑷𐑑; 𐑷𐑤 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑤, 𐑑 𐑒𐑮𐑱𐑟𐑦 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚, 𐑢𐑻 𐑝𐑦𐑟𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑪𐑯𐑦𐑓𐑲𐑛, 𐑯 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑐𐑮𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑥𐑪𐑚𐑦 ·𐑛𐑦𐑒. 𐑣𐑰 𐑐𐑲𐑤𐑛 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤'𐑟 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑣𐑳𐑥𐑐 𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑮𐑱𐑡 𐑯 𐑣𐑱𐑑 𐑓𐑧𐑤𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑮𐑱𐑕 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 ·𐑨𐑛𐑩𐑥 𐑛𐑬𐑯; 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑓 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑗𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑩 𐑥𐑹𐑑𐑼, 𐑣𐑰 𐑚𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑪𐑑 𐑣𐑸𐑑'𐑕 𐑖𐑧𐑤 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑦𐑑.</p>
    <p>𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑚𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑩𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑾 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑑𐑫𐑒 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑮𐑲𐑟 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑲𐑕 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑥𐑧𐑥𐑚𐑼𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑. 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑦𐑯 𐑛𐑸𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑼, 𐑯𐑲𐑓 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛, 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑜𐑦𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑤𐑵𐑕 𐑑 𐑩 𐑕𐑳𐑛𐑩𐑯, 𐑐𐑨𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑑, 𐑒𐑹𐑐𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑥𐑪𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑦; 𐑯 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑰𐑝𐑛 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑴𐑒 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑑𐑹 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑣𐑰 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑚𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑓𐑧𐑤𐑑 𐑞 𐑨𐑜𐑩𐑯𐑲𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑨𐑕𐑼𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑯𐑳𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑹. 𐑘𐑧𐑑, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑚𐑲 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑠𐑩𐑯 𐑓𐑹𐑕𐑑 𐑑 𐑑𐑻𐑯 𐑑𐑩𐑢𐑹𐑛𐑟 𐑣𐑴𐑥, 𐑯 𐑓 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑥𐑳𐑯𐑔𐑕 𐑝 𐑛𐑱𐑟 𐑯 𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑕, ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑯 𐑨𐑙𐑜𐑢𐑦𐑖 𐑤𐑱 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑗𐑑 𐑑𐑩𐑜𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑥𐑩𐑒, 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑦𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑛𐑮𐑽𐑦, 𐑣𐑬𐑤𐑦𐑙 ·𐑐𐑨𐑑𐑩𐑜𐑴𐑯𐑾𐑯 ·𐑒𐑱𐑐; 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑹𐑯 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦 𐑯 𐑜𐑨𐑖𐑑 𐑕𐑴𐑤 𐑚𐑤𐑧𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑩𐑯𐑳𐑞𐑼; 𐑯 𐑕𐑴 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑓𐑿𐑟𐑦𐑙, 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑥𐑨𐑛. 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑥𐑢𐑼𐑛 𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡, 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑼, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑩𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑾 𐑕𐑰𐑟𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑟 𐑷𐑤 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑓𐑨𐑒𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑, 𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑛𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑐𐑨𐑕𐑦𐑡, 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑮𐑱𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑵𐑯𐑩𐑑𐑦𐑒; 𐑯, 𐑞𐑴 𐑳𐑯𐑤𐑦𐑥𐑛 𐑝 𐑩 𐑤𐑧𐑜, 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑝𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑙𐑔 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑤𐑻𐑒𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 ·𐑦𐑡𐑦𐑐𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑗𐑧𐑕𐑑, 𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑥𐑹𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑓𐑲𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑽𐑾𐑥, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑱𐑑𐑕 𐑢𐑻 𐑓𐑹𐑕𐑑 𐑑 𐑤𐑱𐑕 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑑, 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑞𐑺, 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑛, 𐑮𐑱𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑥𐑩𐑒. 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑-𐑡𐑨𐑒𐑩𐑑, 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑢𐑳𐑙 𐑑 𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑛 𐑮𐑪𐑒𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑜𐑱𐑤𐑟. 𐑯, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑮𐑳𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑥𐑹 𐑕𐑳𐑓𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑤𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛𐑟, 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑥𐑲𐑤𐑛 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑯'𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑛, 𐑓𐑤𐑴𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑩𐑒𐑮𐑪𐑕 𐑞 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑑𐑮𐑪𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑕, 𐑯, 𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑩𐑐𐑽𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟, 𐑞 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑥𐑨𐑯'𐑟 𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑽𐑾𐑥 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑤𐑧𐑓𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑣𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑱𐑐 ·𐑣𐑹𐑯 𐑕𐑢𐑧𐑤𐑟, 𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑓𐑹𐑔 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑸𐑒 𐑛𐑧𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑚𐑤𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑑 𐑯 𐑺; 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑚𐑹 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑓𐑻𐑥, 𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑳𐑯𐑑, 𐑣𐑬𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑐𐑱𐑤, 𐑯 𐑦𐑖𐑿𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑭𐑥 𐑹𐑛𐑼𐑟 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯; 𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑱𐑑𐑕 𐑔𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑑 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛 𐑞 𐑛𐑲𐑼𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑥𐑨𐑛𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑬 𐑜𐑪𐑯; 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯, ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚, 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓, 𐑮𐑱𐑝𐑛 𐑪𐑯. 𐑣𐑿𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑥𐑨𐑛𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑦𐑟 𐑪𐑓𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑩 𐑒𐑳𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑯 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑓𐑰𐑤𐑲𐑯 𐑔𐑦𐑙. 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑿 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑦𐑑 𐑓𐑤𐑧𐑛, 𐑦𐑑 𐑥𐑱 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑓𐑦𐑜𐑼𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑕𐑳𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑼 𐑓𐑹𐑥. 𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚'𐑟 𐑓𐑫𐑤 𐑤𐑵𐑯𐑩𐑕𐑦 𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑕𐑲𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑛𐑰𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛; 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞 𐑳𐑯𐑩𐑚𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 ·𐑣𐑳𐑛𐑕𐑩𐑯, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑯𐑴𐑚𐑩𐑤 ·𐑯𐑹𐑔𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑓𐑤𐑴𐑟 𐑯𐑼𐑴𐑤𐑦, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑳𐑯𐑓𐑨𐑞𐑩𐑥𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑞 ·𐑣𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑜𐑹𐑡. 𐑚𐑳𐑑, 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑼𐑴-𐑓𐑤𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑩𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑾, 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑡𐑪𐑑 𐑝 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚'𐑟 𐑚𐑮𐑷𐑛 𐑥𐑨𐑛𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑤𐑧𐑓𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑣𐑲𐑯𐑛; 𐑕𐑴 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑚𐑮𐑷𐑛 𐑥𐑨𐑛𐑯𐑩𐑕, 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑡𐑪𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑯𐑨𐑗𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑧𐑒𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑐𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑖𐑑. 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑱𐑡𐑩𐑯𐑑, 𐑯𐑬 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑞 𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑. 𐑦𐑓 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑓𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑾𐑕 𐑑𐑮𐑴𐑐 𐑥𐑱 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛, 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑤 𐑤𐑵𐑯𐑩𐑕𐑦 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑥𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑦, 𐑯 𐑒𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑛 𐑦𐑑, 𐑯 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑛 𐑷𐑤 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑛 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑩𐑯 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑴𐑯 𐑥𐑨𐑛 𐑥𐑸𐑒; 𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑓𐑸 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑪𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑙𐑔, ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚, 𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑧𐑯𐑛, 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑯𐑬 𐑐𐑩𐑟𐑧𐑕 𐑩 𐑔𐑬𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑓𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑥𐑹 𐑐𐑴𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑕𐑱𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑮𐑷𐑑 𐑑 𐑚𐑺 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑮𐑰𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑪𐑚𐑡𐑧𐑒𐑑.</p>
    <p>𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑳𐑗; 𐑘𐑧𐑑 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚'𐑟 𐑤𐑸𐑡𐑼, 𐑛𐑸𐑒𐑼, 𐑛𐑰𐑐𐑼 𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑟 𐑳𐑯𐑣𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑝𐑱𐑯 𐑑 𐑐𐑪𐑐𐑿𐑤𐑼𐑲𐑟 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑓𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑟, 𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑑𐑮𐑵𐑔 𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛. 𐑢𐑲𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑸 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑣𐑸𐑑 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑕𐑐𐑲𐑒𐑑 ·𐑣𐑴𐑑𐑧𐑤 𐑛𐑦 ·𐑒𐑤𐑵𐑯𐑦 𐑢𐑺 𐑢𐑰 𐑣𐑽 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛—𐑣𐑬𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑜𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑓𐑩𐑤, 𐑯𐑬 𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑑;—𐑯 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑘𐑹 𐑢𐑱, 𐑘𐑰 𐑯𐑴𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑼, 𐑕𐑨𐑛𐑼 𐑕𐑴𐑤𐑟, 𐑑 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑝𐑭𐑕𐑑 ·𐑮𐑴𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑷𐑤𐑟 𐑝 ·𐑑𐑻𐑥𐑩𐑟; 𐑢𐑺 𐑓𐑸 𐑚𐑦𐑯𐑰𐑔 𐑞 𐑓𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑨𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑑𐑬𐑼𐑟 𐑝 𐑥𐑨𐑯'𐑟 𐑳𐑐𐑼 𐑻𐑔, 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑮𐑵𐑑 𐑝 𐑜𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑡𐑼, 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑷𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑚𐑽𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑑; 𐑩𐑯 𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑰𐑒 𐑚𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑛 𐑚𐑦𐑯𐑰𐑔 𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑟, 𐑯 𐑔𐑮𐑴𐑯𐑛 𐑪𐑯 𐑑𐑹𐑕𐑴𐑟! 𐑕𐑴 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑚𐑮𐑴𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑔𐑮𐑴𐑯, 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑜𐑪𐑛𐑟 𐑥𐑪𐑒 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑝 𐑒𐑦𐑙; 𐑕𐑴 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 ·𐑒𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑛, 𐑣𐑰 𐑐𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑕, 𐑳𐑐𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑮𐑴𐑟𐑩𐑯 𐑚𐑮𐑬 𐑞 𐑐𐑲𐑤𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑩𐑗𐑼𐑟 𐑝 𐑱𐑡𐑩𐑟. 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛 𐑘𐑰 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑞𐑺, 𐑘𐑰 𐑐𐑮𐑬𐑛𐑼, 𐑕𐑨𐑛𐑼 𐑕𐑴𐑤𐑟! 𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑕𐑗𐑩𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑬𐑛, 𐑕𐑨𐑛 𐑒𐑦𐑙! 𐑩 𐑓𐑨𐑥𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑲𐑒𐑯𐑩𐑕! 𐑲, 𐑣𐑰 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑧𐑑 𐑘𐑰, 𐑘𐑰 𐑘𐑳𐑙 𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑲𐑤𐑛 𐑮𐑶𐑩𐑤𐑑𐑦𐑟; 𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑘𐑹 𐑜𐑮𐑦𐑥 𐑕𐑲𐑼 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑞 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑑-𐑕𐑰𐑒𐑮𐑩𐑑 𐑒𐑳𐑥.</p>
    <p>𐑯𐑬, 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑸𐑑, ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑜𐑤𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑕 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕, 𐑯𐑱𐑥𐑤𐑦: 𐑷𐑤 𐑥𐑲 𐑥𐑰𐑯𐑟 𐑸 𐑕𐑱𐑯, 𐑥𐑲 𐑥𐑴𐑑𐑦𐑝 𐑯 𐑥𐑲 𐑪𐑚𐑡𐑧𐑒𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑛. 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑 𐑐𐑬𐑼 𐑑 𐑒𐑦𐑤, 𐑹 𐑗𐑱𐑯𐑡, 𐑹 𐑖𐑳𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑨𐑒𐑑; 𐑣𐑰 𐑤𐑲𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑟 𐑯𐑿 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑒𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑰 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑧𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤; 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑕𐑹𐑑, 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑧𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑳𐑚𐑡𐑧𐑒𐑑 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑧𐑐𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑦, 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑛𐑦𐑑𐑻𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑑. 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑞𐑩𐑤𐑧𐑕, 𐑕𐑴 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑩𐑒𐑕𐑰𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑧𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑲𐑝𐑼𐑦 𐑤𐑧𐑜 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑐𐑑 𐑩𐑖𐑹 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑, 𐑯𐑴 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑𐑼 𐑔𐑷𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑳𐑞𐑼𐑢𐑲𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑯𐑨𐑗𐑼𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑝𐑛, 𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑑 𐑞 𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑒, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑑𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑨𐑠𐑵𐑩𐑤𐑑𐑦 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑴𐑝𐑼𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥.</p>
    <p>𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑲𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑽𐑾𐑥 𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑤𐑲𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑟 𐑐𐑪𐑐𐑿𐑤𐑼𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑚𐑛 𐑑 𐑩 𐑒𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑛 𐑒𐑷𐑟. 𐑯 𐑕𐑴 𐑑𐑵, 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑨𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑥𐑵𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑷𐑤𐑢𐑱𐑟 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼𐑢𐑼𐑛𐑟, 𐑑 𐑞 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑛𐑱 𐑝 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡, 𐑕𐑨𐑑 𐑚𐑮𐑵𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑮𐑬. 𐑯𐑹 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑴 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑳𐑯𐑤𐑲𐑒𐑤𐑦, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑓𐑸 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑦𐑑𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑓 𐑩𐑯𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡, 𐑪𐑯 𐑩𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑛𐑸𐑒 𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑑𐑩𐑥𐑟, 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑤𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑐𐑰𐑐𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑵𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑲𐑤 𐑢𐑻 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑣𐑸𐑚𐑼 𐑞 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑰𐑑, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑓 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑮𐑰𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑚𐑧𐑑𐑼 𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑓𐑲𐑛 𐑯 𐑕𐑧𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑧𐑡, 𐑓 𐑩 𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑿𐑑 𐑕𐑴 𐑓𐑫𐑤 𐑝 𐑮𐑱𐑡 𐑯 𐑢𐑲𐑤𐑛𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑛𐑦 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟. 𐑯𐑷𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑦𐑯 𐑯 𐑕𐑒𐑹𐑗𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑑, 𐑳𐑯𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑨𐑙𐑟 𐑝 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑲𐑛𐑾; 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯, 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑣𐑰 𐑚𐑰 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛, 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑕𐑰𐑥 𐑞 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑑 𐑛𐑸𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑲𐑼𐑯 𐑯 𐑤𐑦𐑓𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑩𐑐𐑷𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑚𐑮𐑵𐑑𐑕. 𐑹, 𐑦𐑓 𐑓 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑮𐑰𐑟𐑩𐑯 𐑔𐑷𐑑 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑒𐑹𐑐𐑹𐑾𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑩𐑐𐑨𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑓 𐑞𐑨𐑑, 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑕𐑰𐑥 𐑕𐑵𐑐𐑻𐑤𐑩𐑑𐑦𐑝𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑐𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑑 𐑗𐑽 𐑯 𐑣𐑬𐑤 𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑤𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑑 𐑞 𐑩𐑑𐑨𐑒. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑥𐑱, 𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑛 𐑕𐑰𐑒𐑮𐑩𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑳𐑯𐑩𐑚𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑮𐑱𐑡 𐑚𐑴𐑤𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑳𐑐 𐑯 𐑒𐑰𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥, ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑐𐑻𐑐𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑛 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑯 𐑷𐑤-𐑦𐑯𐑜𐑮𐑴𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑚𐑡𐑧𐑒𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑞 ·𐑢𐑲𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤. 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑩𐑒𐑢𐑱𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑪𐑯 𐑖𐑹 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑣𐑭𐑓 𐑛𐑮𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑝 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑤𐑻𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑣𐑬 𐑕𐑵𐑯 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑞𐑺 𐑩𐑜𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑯 𐑮𐑲𐑗𐑩𐑕 𐑕𐑴𐑤𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑮𐑧𐑯𐑗𐑑 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑓𐑰𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑖 𐑥𐑨𐑯! 𐑞𐑱 𐑢𐑻 𐑚𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑓𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑟𐑩𐑟, 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑓𐑦𐑑 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑛𐑪𐑤𐑼𐑟 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑑. 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑩𐑯 𐑷𐑛𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑕, 𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑜𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤, 𐑯 𐑕𐑵𐑐𐑼𐑯𐑨𐑗𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑡.</p>
    <p>𐑣𐑽, 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑜𐑮𐑱-𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑩𐑛, 𐑳𐑯𐑜𐑪𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑥𐑨𐑯, 𐑗𐑱𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑒𐑻𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑩 ·𐑡𐑴𐑚'𐑟 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛, 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑝 𐑩 𐑒𐑮𐑵, 𐑑𐑵, 𐑗𐑰𐑓𐑤𐑦 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑳𐑐 𐑝 𐑥𐑳𐑙𐑜𐑮𐑩𐑤 𐑮𐑧𐑯𐑦𐑜𐑱𐑛𐑟, 𐑯 𐑒𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑢𐑱𐑟, 𐑯 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑟—𐑥𐑪𐑮𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑰𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑷𐑤𐑕𐑴, 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑐𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑝 𐑥𐑽 𐑳𐑯𐑱𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑝𐑻𐑗𐑵 𐑹 𐑮𐑲𐑑-𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒, 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑳𐑤𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑡𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑯 𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑼𐑝𐑱𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑰𐑛𐑦𐑪𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒. 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑒𐑮𐑵, 𐑕𐑴 𐑪𐑓𐑦𐑕𐑼𐑛, 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑑 𐑯 𐑐𐑨𐑒𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑻𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑓𐑩𐑑𐑨𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑑 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑐 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑩𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑦𐑨𐑒 𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑡. 𐑣𐑬 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑱 𐑕𐑴 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑪𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑑 𐑞 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑥𐑨𐑯'𐑟 𐑲𐑼—𐑚𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑤 𐑥𐑨𐑡𐑦𐑒 𐑞𐑺 𐑕𐑴𐑤𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑐𐑩𐑟𐑧𐑕𐑑, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑱𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑺𐑟; 𐑞 ·𐑢𐑲𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑨𐑟 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑞𐑺 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑳𐑓𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑓𐑴 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑟; 𐑣𐑬 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑑 𐑚𐑰—𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑢𐑲𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑥, 𐑹 𐑣𐑬 𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑳𐑯𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑕 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙𐑟, 𐑷𐑤𐑕𐑴, 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑛𐑦𐑥, 𐑳𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑱, 𐑣𐑰 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑞 𐑜𐑤𐑲𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑛𐑰𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑰𐑟 𐑝 𐑤𐑲𐑓,—𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑑 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯, 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑚𐑰 𐑑 𐑛𐑲𐑝 𐑛𐑰𐑐𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑯 ·𐑦𐑖𐑥𐑱𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑜𐑴. 𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑚𐑑𐑼𐑱𐑯𐑾𐑯 𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑻𐑒𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑳𐑕 𐑷𐑤, 𐑣𐑬 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑑𐑧𐑤 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑼 𐑤𐑰𐑛𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑖𐑭𐑓𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑖𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑦𐑙, 𐑥𐑳𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑕𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑦𐑒? 𐑣𐑵 𐑛𐑳𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑓𐑰𐑤 𐑞 𐑦𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑸𐑥 𐑛𐑮𐑨𐑜? 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑒𐑦𐑓 𐑦𐑯 𐑑𐑴 𐑝 𐑩 𐑕𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦-𐑓𐑹 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤? 𐑓 𐑢𐑳𐑯, 𐑲 𐑜𐑱𐑝 𐑥𐑲𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑳𐑐 𐑑 𐑞 𐑩𐑚𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑩-𐑮𐑳𐑖 𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑼 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑕𐑰 𐑯𐑷𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑚𐑮𐑵𐑑 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑛𐑤𐑾𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑤.</p>
  </body>
</html>
