<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Chapter 67</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="chapter-67" xml:lang="en-US">
      <h2 id="chapterheader-67">·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 67. 𐑒𐑳𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯.</h2>
    </div>
    <p>𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑕𐑨𐑑𐑼𐑛𐑱 𐑯𐑲𐑑, 𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 ·𐑕𐑨𐑚𐑩𐑔 𐑨𐑟 𐑓𐑪𐑤𐑴𐑛! 𐑧𐑒𐑕 𐑪𐑓𐑦𐑕𐑦𐑴 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑓𐑧𐑕𐑼𐑟 𐑝 ·𐑕𐑨𐑚𐑩𐑔 𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑸 𐑷𐑤 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯. 𐑞 𐑲𐑝𐑼𐑦 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑩 𐑖𐑨𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤; 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼 𐑩 𐑚𐑫𐑗𐑼. 𐑿 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑔𐑷𐑑 𐑢𐑰 𐑢𐑻 𐑪𐑓𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑐 𐑑𐑧𐑯 𐑔𐑬𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑮𐑧𐑛 𐑪𐑒𐑕𐑩𐑯 𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑰 𐑜𐑪𐑛𐑟.</p>
    <p>𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕, 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑹𐑥𐑩𐑕 𐑒𐑳𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑑𐑨𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑟, 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑐𐑪𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑩𐑕 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑒𐑤𐑳𐑕𐑑𐑼 𐑝 𐑚𐑤𐑪𐑒𐑕 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑱𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑯, 𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑯𐑴 𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑩𐑤 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑐𐑪𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑦𐑓𐑑—𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑝𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑳𐑯𐑗 𐑝 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑐𐑕 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑢𐑱𐑛 𐑳𐑐 𐑑 𐑞 𐑥𐑱𐑯-𐑑𐑪𐑐 𐑯 𐑓𐑻𐑥𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑨𐑖𐑑 𐑑 𐑞 𐑤𐑴𐑼 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑-𐑣𐑧𐑛, 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑪𐑙𐑜𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑 𐑧𐑯𐑦𐑢𐑺 𐑩𐑚𐑳𐑝 𐑩 𐑖𐑦𐑐'𐑕 𐑛𐑧𐑒. 𐑞 𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 𐑣𐑷𐑟𐑼-𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑮𐑴𐑐 𐑢𐑲𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑕𐑦𐑟, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑛𐑳𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑩𐑕, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑣𐑿𐑡 𐑤𐑴𐑼 𐑚𐑤𐑪𐑒 𐑝 𐑞 𐑑𐑨𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑢𐑳𐑙 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤; 𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑚𐑤𐑪𐑒 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑚𐑼 𐑣𐑫𐑒, 𐑢𐑱𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑛 𐑐𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑟, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩𐑑𐑨𐑗𐑑. 𐑯 𐑯𐑬 𐑕𐑩𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑡𐑩𐑟 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 𐑕𐑲𐑛, ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒 𐑯 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚, 𐑞 𐑥𐑱𐑑𐑕, 𐑸𐑥𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑺 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑕𐑐𐑱𐑛𐑟, 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑨𐑯 𐑒𐑳𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦 𐑓 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑻𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑣𐑫𐑒 𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑩𐑚𐑳𐑝 𐑞 𐑯𐑽𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑑𐑵 𐑕𐑲𐑛-𐑓𐑦𐑯𐑟. 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑛𐑳𐑯, 𐑩 𐑚𐑮𐑷𐑛, 𐑕𐑧𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑼 𐑤𐑲𐑯 𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑳𐑑 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑤, 𐑞 𐑣𐑫𐑒 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑱𐑯 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦 𐑝 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑵 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑐 𐑩 𐑢𐑲𐑤𐑛 𐑒𐑹𐑩𐑕, 𐑯𐑬 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑕 𐑣𐑰𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑛𐑧𐑯𐑕 𐑒𐑮𐑬𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑩𐑕. 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦, 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑲𐑼 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑒𐑼𐑰𐑯𐑟 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑻 𐑕𐑲𐑛; 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑚𐑴𐑤𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑻 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑑𐑕 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞 𐑯𐑱𐑤-𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑟 𐑝 𐑩𐑯 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑣𐑬𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑕𐑑𐑦 𐑢𐑧𐑞𐑼; 𐑖𐑰 𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑟, 𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑝𐑼𐑟, 𐑯 𐑯𐑪𐑛𐑟 𐑣𐑻 𐑓𐑮𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑-𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑟 𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑒𐑲. 𐑥𐑹 𐑯 𐑥𐑹 𐑖𐑰 𐑤𐑰𐑯𐑟 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑜𐑭𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑰𐑝 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑦𐑟 𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑼𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑩 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑰𐑝 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑴𐑟; 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑, 𐑩 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑓𐑑, 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑯𐑨𐑐 𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑻𐑛; 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑕𐑢𐑭𐑖 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑮𐑴𐑤𐑟 𐑳𐑐𐑢𐑼𐑛𐑟 𐑯 𐑚𐑨𐑒𐑢𐑼𐑛𐑟 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑳𐑥𐑓𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑑𐑨𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑮𐑲𐑟𐑩𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑕𐑲𐑑 𐑛𐑮𐑨𐑜𐑦𐑙 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑦𐑑 𐑞 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑜𐑱𐑡𐑛 𐑕𐑧𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑼 𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑐 𐑝 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑚𐑼. 𐑯𐑬 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑚𐑼 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑧𐑤𐑩𐑐𐑕 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑲𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑮𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑛𐑳𐑟 𐑩𐑯 𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑯𐑡, 𐑕𐑴 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑑 𐑪𐑓 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑲𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑨𐑟 𐑩𐑯 𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑯𐑡 𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑕𐑐𐑲𐑮𐑩𐑤𐑲𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑑. 𐑓 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑧𐑐𐑑 𐑳𐑐 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑿𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑰𐑐𐑕 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑮𐑴𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑯 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼, 𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑚𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑐 𐑿𐑯𐑦𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑰𐑤𐑟 𐑪𐑓 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑞 𐑤𐑲𐑯 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛 𐑞 “𐑕𐑒𐑸𐑓,” 𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑤𐑑𐑱𐑯𐑾𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑳𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑕𐑐𐑱𐑛𐑟 𐑝 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒 𐑯 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚, 𐑞 𐑥𐑱𐑑𐑕; 𐑯 𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑞𐑳𐑕 𐑐𐑰𐑤𐑛 𐑪𐑓, 𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑰𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑨𐑒𐑑 𐑦𐑑𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓, 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑶𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑲𐑼 𐑯 𐑣𐑲𐑼 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑓𐑑 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑳𐑐𐑼 𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑟𐑩𐑟 𐑞 𐑥𐑱𐑯-𐑑𐑪𐑐; 𐑞 𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑕𐑰𐑕 𐑣𐑰𐑝𐑦𐑙, 𐑯 𐑓 𐑩 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑹 𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑛𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑕 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑛-𐑛𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑨𐑕 𐑕𐑢𐑱𐑟 𐑑 𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑴 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑓 𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑕𐑒𐑲, 𐑯 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑣𐑰𐑛 𐑑 𐑛𐑪𐑡 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑙𐑟, 𐑧𐑤𐑕 𐑦𐑑 𐑥𐑱 𐑚𐑪𐑒𐑕 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑽𐑟 𐑯 𐑐𐑦𐑗 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑴𐑝𐑼𐑚𐑹𐑛.</p>
    <p>𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑩𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽𐑟 𐑯𐑬 𐑩𐑛𐑝𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑤𐑪𐑙, 𐑒𐑰𐑯 𐑢𐑧𐑐𐑩𐑯 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛 𐑩 𐑚𐑹𐑛𐑦𐑙-𐑕𐑹𐑛, 𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑗𐑭𐑯𐑕 𐑣𐑰 𐑛𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑤𐑲𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑬𐑑 𐑩 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑤𐑴𐑼 𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑢𐑱𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑨𐑕. 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑣𐑴𐑤, 𐑞 𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑧𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑷𐑤𐑑𐑼𐑯𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑑𐑨𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑟 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑣𐑫𐑒𐑑 𐑕𐑴 𐑨𐑟 𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑱𐑯 𐑩 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑚𐑼, 𐑦𐑯 𐑹𐑛𐑼 𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑺 𐑓 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑓𐑪𐑤𐑴𐑟. 𐑢𐑺𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯, 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑩𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑦𐑖𐑑 𐑕𐑹𐑛𐑟𐑥𐑩𐑯, 𐑢𐑹𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑪𐑓, 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕 𐑥𐑹 𐑥𐑱𐑒𐑕 𐑩 𐑕𐑲𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒 𐑛𐑨𐑖 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑕, 𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑓𐑿 𐑕𐑲𐑛𐑤𐑪𐑙, 𐑛𐑧𐑕𐑐𐑼𐑩𐑑, 𐑤𐑳𐑯𐑡𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑤𐑲𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑟, 𐑕𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑰𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯 𐑑𐑢𐑱𐑯; 𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑞 𐑖𐑹𐑑 𐑤𐑴𐑼 𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑑, 𐑞 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑳𐑐𐑼 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑐, 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛 𐑩 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑩𐑑-𐑐𐑰𐑕, 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑒𐑤𐑽, 𐑯 𐑦𐑟 𐑷𐑤 𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑦 𐑓 𐑤𐑴𐑼𐑦𐑙. 𐑞 𐑣𐑰𐑝𐑼𐑟 𐑓𐑹𐑢𐑼𐑛 𐑯𐑬 𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑿𐑥 𐑞𐑺 𐑕𐑪𐑙, 𐑯 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑞 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑑𐑨𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑰𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑯 𐑣𐑶𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑕𐑧𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑐 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑤𐑴𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑤𐑨𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑩𐑢𐑱, 𐑯 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑜𐑴𐑟 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑐 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑞 𐑥𐑱𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑗𐑢𐑱 𐑮𐑲𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑯𐑰𐑔, 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑩𐑯 𐑳𐑯𐑓𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑖𐑑 𐑐𐑸𐑤𐑼 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛 𐑞 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑚𐑼-𐑮𐑵𐑥. 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑑𐑢𐑲𐑤𐑲𐑑 𐑩𐑐𐑸𐑑𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑦 𐑯𐑦𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑒𐑰𐑐 𐑒𐑶𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑢𐑱 𐑞 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑩𐑑-𐑐𐑰𐑕 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑓 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑻 𐑩 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑝 𐑥𐑨𐑕 𐑝 𐑐𐑤𐑨𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑕𐑻𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕. 𐑯 𐑞𐑳𐑕 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑒 𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑕𐑰𐑛𐑟; 𐑞 𐑑𐑵 𐑑𐑨𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑣𐑶𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑯 𐑤𐑴𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑤𐑑𐑱𐑯𐑾𐑕𐑤𐑦; 𐑚𐑴𐑔 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑣𐑰𐑝𐑦𐑙, 𐑞 𐑣𐑰𐑝𐑼𐑟 𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑦𐑙, 𐑞 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑚𐑼-𐑮𐑵𐑥 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑒𐑶𐑤𐑦𐑙, 𐑞 𐑥𐑱𐑑𐑕 𐑕𐑒𐑸𐑓𐑦𐑙, 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑦𐑙, 𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑕𐑢𐑺𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑒𐑱𐑠𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑤𐑦, 𐑚𐑲 𐑢𐑱 𐑝 𐑩𐑕𐑢𐑱𐑡𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑓𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯.</p>
  </body>
</html>
