<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Chapter 81</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="chapter-81" xml:lang="en-US">
      <h2 id="chapterheader-81">·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 81. 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛 ·𐑥𐑰𐑑𐑕 𐑞 ·𐑝𐑻𐑡𐑦𐑯.</h2>
    </div>
    <p>𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑰𐑛𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑛𐑱 𐑼𐑲𐑝𐑛, 𐑯 𐑢𐑰 𐑛𐑵𐑤𐑦 𐑥𐑧𐑑 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐 ·𐑿𐑙𐑓𐑮𐑬, ·𐑛𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑒 ·𐑛𐑦 ·𐑛𐑽, 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑼, 𐑝 ·𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑥𐑩𐑯.</p>
    <p>𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑐𐑰𐑐𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛, 𐑞 ·𐑛𐑳𐑗 𐑯 ·𐑡𐑻𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑸 𐑯𐑬 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑞 𐑤𐑰𐑕𐑑; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑣𐑽 𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑨𐑑 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑢𐑲𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑝 𐑤𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛 𐑯 𐑤𐑪𐑯𐑜𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛, 𐑿 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑩𐑒𐑱𐑠𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑥𐑰𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑺 𐑓𐑤𐑨𐑜 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑩𐑕𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒.</p>
    <p>𐑓 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑮𐑰𐑟𐑩𐑯, 𐑞 ·𐑿𐑙𐑓𐑮𐑬 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑰𐑜𐑼 𐑑 𐑐𐑱 𐑣𐑻 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑕. 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛, 𐑖𐑰 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑑, 𐑯 𐑛𐑮𐑪𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑚𐑴𐑑, 𐑣𐑻 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑧𐑤𐑛 𐑑𐑩𐑢𐑹𐑛𐑟 𐑳𐑕, 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑬𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑻𐑯.</p>
    <p>“𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑞𐑺?” 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒, 𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑱𐑝𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 ·𐑡𐑻𐑥𐑩𐑯. “𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑪𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤!—𐑩 𐑤𐑨𐑥𐑐-𐑓𐑰𐑛𐑼!”</p>
    <p>“𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚, “𐑯𐑴, 𐑯𐑴, 𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑩 𐑒𐑪𐑓𐑦-𐑐𐑪𐑑, ·𐑥𐑼 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒; 𐑣𐑰'𐑟 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑓 𐑑 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑳𐑕 𐑬𐑼 𐑒𐑪𐑓𐑦, 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 ·𐑘𐑸𐑥𐑩𐑯; 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑿 𐑕𐑰 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑜 𐑑𐑦𐑯 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑥?—𐑞𐑨𐑑'𐑕 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑶𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼. 𐑴! 𐑣𐑰'𐑟 𐑷𐑤 𐑮𐑲𐑑, 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 ·𐑘𐑸𐑥𐑩𐑯.”</p>
    <p>“𐑜𐑴 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑿,” 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 ·𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒, “𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑩 𐑤𐑨𐑥𐑐-𐑓𐑰𐑛𐑼 𐑯 𐑩𐑯 𐑶𐑤-𐑒𐑨𐑯. 𐑣𐑰'𐑟 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑶𐑤, 𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑩-𐑚𐑧𐑜𐑦𐑙.”</p>
    <p>𐑣𐑬𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑾𐑕 𐑦𐑑 𐑥𐑱 𐑕𐑰𐑥 𐑓 𐑩𐑯 𐑶𐑤-𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑚𐑪𐑮𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑶𐑤 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑜𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛, 𐑯 𐑣𐑬𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑦𐑑 𐑥𐑱 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑑 𐑞 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑝𐑻𐑚 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑒𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑴𐑤𐑟 𐑑 ·𐑯𐑿𐑒𐑭𐑕𐑩𐑤, 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑮𐑾𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑟; 𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑒𐑱𐑕 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑛𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑒 ·𐑛𐑦 ·𐑛𐑽 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑿𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑳𐑒𐑑 𐑩 𐑤𐑨𐑥𐑐-𐑓𐑰𐑛𐑼 𐑨𐑟 ·𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑺.</p>
    <p>𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑥𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑒, ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑩𐑚𐑮𐑳𐑐𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑒𐑪𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑰𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑮𐑴𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑤𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑴, 𐑞 ·𐑡𐑻𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑕𐑵𐑯 𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑰𐑑 𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑢𐑲𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤; 𐑦𐑥𐑰𐑛𐑾𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑝𐑼𐑕𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑨𐑥𐑐-𐑓𐑰𐑛𐑼 𐑯 𐑶𐑤 𐑒𐑨𐑯, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑸𐑒𐑕 𐑑𐑳𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑑𐑻𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑥𐑩𐑒 𐑨𐑑 𐑯𐑲𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑛𐑸𐑒𐑯𐑩𐑕—𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑛𐑮𐑪𐑐 𐑝 ·𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑶𐑤 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑜𐑪𐑯, 𐑯 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑩 𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑩𐑤 𐑓𐑤𐑲𐑦𐑙-𐑓𐑦𐑖 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑗𐑼𐑛 𐑑 𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑤𐑲 𐑞 𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦; 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑵𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑲 𐑣𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑰𐑛 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑦 𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑧𐑒𐑯𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛 𐑩 <i>𐑒𐑤𐑰𐑯</i> 𐑢𐑳𐑯 (𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑟, 𐑩𐑯 𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑑𐑦 𐑢𐑳𐑯), 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑛𐑦𐑟𐑻𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑯𐑱𐑥 𐑝 ·𐑿𐑙𐑓𐑮𐑬 𐑹 𐑞 ·𐑝𐑻𐑡𐑦𐑯.</p>
    <p>𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑦𐑕𐑧𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑤𐑲𐑛, ·𐑛𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑒 𐑛𐑦𐑐𐑸𐑑𐑩𐑛; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑖𐑦𐑐'𐑕 𐑕𐑲𐑛, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑤𐑑𐑱𐑯𐑾𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑱𐑟𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑-𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑟 𐑝 𐑚𐑴𐑔 𐑝𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑟; 𐑯 𐑕𐑴 𐑰𐑜𐑼 𐑓 𐑞 𐑗𐑱𐑕 𐑢𐑪𐑟 ·𐑛𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑒, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑 𐑐𐑷𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑐𐑫𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑶𐑤-𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑯 𐑤𐑨𐑥𐑐-𐑓𐑰𐑛𐑼 𐑩𐑚𐑹𐑛, 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑤𐑵𐑛 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑯 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑞 𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯 𐑤𐑨𐑥𐑐-𐑓𐑰𐑛𐑼𐑟.</p>
    <p>𐑯𐑬, 𐑞 𐑜𐑱𐑥 𐑣𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑩𐑯 𐑑 𐑤𐑰𐑢𐑼𐑛, 𐑣𐑰 𐑯 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑔𐑮𐑰 ·𐑡𐑻𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑵𐑯 𐑓𐑪𐑤𐑴𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛'𐑟 𐑒𐑰𐑤𐑟. 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑻 𐑱𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟, 𐑩𐑯 𐑨𐑝𐑼𐑦𐑡 𐑐𐑪𐑛. 𐑩𐑢𐑺 𐑝 𐑞𐑺 𐑛𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑼, 𐑞𐑱 𐑢𐑻 𐑜𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑷𐑤 𐑩𐑚𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑛 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛, 𐑮𐑳𐑚𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑺 𐑓𐑤𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑕 𐑨𐑟 𐑒𐑤𐑴𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑨𐑟 𐑕𐑴 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑕𐑐𐑨𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑣𐑹𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑸𐑯𐑩𐑕. 𐑞𐑱 𐑤𐑧𐑓𐑑 𐑩 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑, 𐑢𐑲𐑛 𐑢𐑱𐑒, 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑴 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑿𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑳𐑯𐑮𐑴𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑢𐑲𐑛 𐑐𐑸𐑗𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑰.</p>
    <p>𐑓𐑫𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑮𐑨𐑐𐑦𐑛 𐑢𐑱𐑒, 𐑯 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑓𐑨𐑞𐑩𐑥𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑮𐑽, 𐑕𐑢𐑨𐑥 𐑩 𐑣𐑿𐑡, 𐑣𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑑 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑫𐑤, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑚𐑲 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑨𐑮𐑩𐑑𐑦𐑝𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑤𐑴 𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑜𐑮𐑧𐑕, 𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑨𐑟 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑳𐑯𐑿𐑠𐑵𐑩𐑤 𐑘𐑧𐑤𐑴𐑦𐑖 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑮𐑳𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑴𐑝𐑼𐑜𐑮𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑩𐑓𐑤𐑦𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑡𐑷𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑕, 𐑹 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑻𐑥𐑦𐑑𐑦. 𐑢𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑪𐑙𐑛 𐑑 𐑞 𐑐𐑪𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑩𐑛𐑝𐑭𐑯𐑕, 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑕𐑗𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤; 𐑓 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑒𐑳𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑥𐑼𐑦 𐑓 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑕𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑤. 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑞𐑩𐑤𐑧𐑕, 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑒 𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑱𐑒, 𐑞𐑴 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑰𐑛 𐑞𐑺 𐑚𐑨𐑒 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑸𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑢𐑲𐑑-𐑚𐑴𐑯 𐑹 𐑕𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑮𐑷𐑛 𐑥𐑳𐑟𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑛𐑨𐑖𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞 𐑕𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑛 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑑𐑵 𐑣𐑪𐑕𐑑𐑲𐑤 𐑒𐑳𐑮𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑥𐑰𐑑. 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑐𐑬𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑖𐑹𐑑, 𐑕𐑤𐑴, 𐑯 𐑤𐑩𐑚𐑹𐑾𐑕; 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑹𐑔 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑗𐑴𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑜𐑳𐑖, 𐑯 𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑑𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑦𐑯 𐑑𐑹𐑯 𐑖𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑟, 𐑓𐑪𐑤𐑴𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡 𐑕𐑳𐑚𐑑𐑼𐑱𐑯𐑾𐑯 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑰𐑜𐑮𐑧𐑕 𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑚𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑛 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑥𐑦𐑑𐑦, 𐑒𐑷𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑚𐑦𐑣𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑑 𐑳𐑐𐑚𐑳𐑚𐑩𐑤.</p>
    <p>“𐑣𐑵'𐑟 𐑜𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑐𐑨𐑮𐑩𐑜𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑒?” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚, “𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑥𐑩𐑒-𐑱𐑒, 𐑲'𐑥 𐑩𐑓𐑮𐑱𐑛. 𐑤𐑹𐑛, 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑝 𐑣𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑭𐑓 𐑩𐑯 𐑱𐑒𐑼 𐑝 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑥𐑩𐑒-𐑱𐑒! 𐑨𐑛𐑝𐑻𐑕 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑸 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑨𐑛 ·𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑥𐑩𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑚𐑶𐑟. 𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑓𐑬𐑤 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛 𐑲 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑯𐑿 𐑑 𐑚𐑤𐑴 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑩𐑕𐑑𐑻𐑯; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑤𐑫𐑒, 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑘𐑷 𐑕𐑴 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹? 𐑦𐑑 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑰, 𐑣𐑰'𐑟 𐑤𐑪𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑦𐑤𐑼.”</p>
    <p>𐑨𐑟 𐑩𐑯 𐑴𐑝𐑼𐑤𐑱𐑛𐑩𐑯 ·𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑾𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑚𐑺𐑦𐑙 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑣𐑲𐑯𐑛𐑴𐑕𐑑𐑭𐑯 𐑒𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑛𐑧𐑒 𐑤𐑴𐑛 𐑝 𐑓𐑮𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑹𐑕𐑩𐑟, 𐑒𐑼𐑰𐑯𐑟, 𐑚𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑟, 𐑮𐑴𐑤𐑟, 𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑤𐑴𐑟 𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑻 𐑢𐑱; 𐑕𐑴 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑣𐑰𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑱𐑡𐑛 𐑚𐑳𐑤𐑒, 𐑯 𐑯𐑬 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑐𐑸𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑮𐑩𐑕 𐑮𐑦𐑚-𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑟, 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑴𐑟 𐑞 𐑒𐑷𐑟 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑰𐑝𐑾𐑕 𐑢𐑱𐑒 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑳𐑯𐑯𐑨𐑗𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑥𐑐 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑼𐑛 𐑓𐑦𐑯. 𐑢𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑤𐑪𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑓𐑦𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑚𐑨𐑑𐑩𐑤, 𐑹 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑚𐑹𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑 𐑦𐑑, 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑻 𐑣𐑸𐑛 𐑑 𐑕𐑱.</p>
    <p>“𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑱𐑑 𐑩 𐑚𐑦𐑑, 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑗𐑨𐑐, 𐑯 𐑲'𐑤 𐑜𐑦𐑝 𐑘𐑰 𐑩 𐑕𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑓 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑵𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑸𐑥,” 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑩𐑤 ·𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒, 𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑤𐑲𐑯 𐑯𐑽 𐑣𐑦𐑥.</p>
    <p>“𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑰 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑕𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑰 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑦𐑑,” 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒. “𐑜𐑦𐑝 𐑢𐑱, 𐑹 𐑞 ·𐑡𐑻𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑥.”</p>
    <p>𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑚𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑮𐑲𐑝𐑩𐑤 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕 𐑢𐑻 𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑓 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑓𐑦𐑖, 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑞 𐑤𐑸𐑡𐑩𐑕𐑑, 𐑯 𐑞𐑺𐑓𐑹 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑝𐑨𐑤𐑿𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑽𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑥, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑜𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑝𐑦𐑤𐑪𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑦, 𐑥𐑹𐑴𐑝𐑼, 𐑨𐑟 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑲 𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑿𐑑 𐑓 𐑞 𐑑𐑲𐑥. 𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑡𐑳𐑙𐑒𐑗𐑼 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛'𐑟 𐑒𐑰𐑤𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑖𐑪𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑔𐑮𐑰 ·𐑡𐑻𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑤𐑴𐑼𐑛; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑛, ·𐑛𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑒'𐑕 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑤𐑧𐑛 𐑞 𐑗𐑱𐑕, 𐑞𐑴 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑯𐑽𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑯 𐑮𐑲𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑟. 𐑞 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑱 𐑓𐑽𐑛, 𐑢𐑪𐑟, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑷𐑤𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑦 𐑕𐑴 𐑯𐑲 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑸𐑒, 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑚𐑰 𐑦𐑯𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑑 𐑛𐑸𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑲𐑼𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑞𐑱 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑰𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑴𐑝𐑼𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑯 𐑐𐑭𐑕 𐑣𐑦𐑥. 𐑨𐑟 𐑓 ·𐑛𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑒, 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑓𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑚𐑰 𐑞 𐑒𐑱𐑕, 𐑯 𐑩𐑒𐑱𐑠𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑛𐑦𐑮𐑲𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑡𐑧𐑕𐑗𐑼 𐑖𐑫𐑒 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑨𐑥𐑐-𐑓𐑰𐑛𐑼 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕.</p>
    <p>“𐑞 𐑳𐑯𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑕 𐑯 𐑳𐑯𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑛𐑪𐑜!” 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒; “𐑣𐑰 𐑥𐑪𐑒𐑕 𐑯 𐑛𐑺𐑟 𐑥𐑰 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑐𐑫𐑼-𐑚𐑪𐑒𐑕 𐑲 𐑓𐑦𐑤𐑛 𐑓 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑓𐑲𐑝 𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑩𐑜𐑴!”—𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑕 𐑢𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑼—“𐑜𐑦𐑝 𐑢𐑱, 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑣𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑟! 𐑛𐑪𐑜 𐑑 𐑦𐑑!”</p>
    <p>“𐑲 𐑑𐑧𐑤 𐑘𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟, 𐑥𐑧𐑯”—𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑮𐑵—“𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑲 𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑯 𐑑 𐑜𐑧𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑛; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑲'𐑛 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑑 𐑰𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑝𐑦𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑕 ·𐑘𐑸𐑥𐑩𐑯—·𐑐𐑫𐑤—𐑢𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑘𐑰? 𐑸 𐑘𐑰 𐑜𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑮𐑭𐑕𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑚𐑰𐑑 𐑘𐑰? 𐑛𐑵 𐑘𐑰 𐑤𐑳𐑝 𐑚𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦? 𐑩 𐑣𐑪𐑜𐑟𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑝 𐑚𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦, 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑯. 𐑒𐑳𐑥, 𐑢𐑲 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑝 𐑘𐑰 𐑚𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑩 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑛-𐑝𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑤? 𐑣𐑵'𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑛𐑮𐑪𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑯 𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑼 𐑴𐑝𐑼𐑚𐑹𐑛—𐑢𐑰 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑚𐑳𐑡 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑗—𐑢𐑰'𐑼 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑭𐑥𐑛. 𐑣𐑩𐑤𐑵, 𐑣𐑽'𐑟 𐑜𐑮𐑭𐑕 𐑜𐑮𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑'𐑕 𐑚𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑥—𐑯 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 ·𐑤𐑹𐑛, 𐑞 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑺'𐑟 𐑚𐑳𐑛𐑦𐑙. 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑛𐑵, 𐑚𐑶𐑟. 𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 ·𐑘𐑸𐑥𐑩𐑯! 𐑞 𐑖𐑹𐑑 𐑯 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑝 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟, 𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑘𐑰 𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑑 𐑓𐑲𐑼 𐑹 𐑯𐑪𐑑?”</p>
    <p>“𐑴! 𐑕𐑰 𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑛𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑥𐑱𐑒𐑕!” 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 ·𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒, 𐑛𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑐 𐑯 𐑛𐑬𐑯—“𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑩 𐑣𐑳𐑥𐑐—𐑴, <i>𐑛𐑵</i> 𐑐𐑲𐑤 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑰𐑓—𐑤𐑱𐑟 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑤𐑪𐑜! 𐑴! 𐑥𐑲 𐑤𐑨𐑛𐑟, <i>𐑛𐑵</i> 𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑙—𐑕𐑤𐑨𐑐-𐑡𐑨𐑒𐑕 𐑯 𐑒𐑢𐑭𐑣𐑪𐑜𐑟 𐑓 𐑕𐑳𐑐𐑼, 𐑿 𐑯𐑴, 𐑥𐑲 𐑤𐑨𐑛𐑟—𐑚𐑱𐑒𐑑 𐑒𐑤𐑨𐑥𐑟 𐑯 𐑥𐑳𐑓𐑦𐑯𐑟—𐑴, <i>𐑛𐑵</i>, <i>𐑛𐑵</i>, 𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑙,—𐑣𐑰'𐑟 𐑩 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑨𐑮𐑩𐑤𐑼—𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑤𐑵𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑯𐑬—𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑴, <i>𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑!</i>—𐑕𐑰 𐑞𐑨𐑑 ·𐑘𐑸𐑥𐑩𐑯—𐑴, 𐑢𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑘𐑰 𐑐𐑫𐑤 𐑓 𐑘𐑹 𐑛𐑳𐑓, 𐑥𐑲 𐑤𐑨𐑛𐑟—𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑕𐑪𐑜! 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑕𐑪𐑜𐑼! 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑘𐑰 𐑤𐑳𐑝 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥? 𐑞𐑺 𐑜𐑴𐑟 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑔𐑬𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑛𐑪𐑤𐑼𐑟, 𐑥𐑧𐑯!—𐑩 𐑚𐑨𐑙𐑒!—𐑩 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑚𐑨𐑙𐑒! 𐑞 𐑚𐑨𐑙𐑒 𐑝 ·𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛!—𐑴, <i>𐑛𐑵</i>, <i>𐑛𐑵</i>, <i>𐑛𐑵!</i>—𐑢𐑪𐑑'𐑕 𐑞𐑨𐑑 ·𐑘𐑸𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑯𐑬?”</p>
    <p>𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑 ·𐑛𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑒 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑨𐑒𐑑 𐑝 𐑐𐑦𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑨𐑥𐑐-𐑓𐑰𐑛𐑼 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑩𐑛𐑝𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕, 𐑯 𐑷𐑤𐑕𐑴 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑶𐑤-𐑒𐑨𐑯; 𐑐𐑼𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑕 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑛𐑳𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑝𐑿 𐑝 𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑸𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑮𐑲𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑟' 𐑢𐑱, 𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑰𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑪𐑥𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑒𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑼𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑨𐑒𐑢𐑼𐑛 𐑑𐑪𐑕.</p>
    <p>“𐑞 𐑳𐑯𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑼𐑤𐑦 ·𐑛𐑳𐑗 𐑛𐑪𐑜𐑼!” 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚. “𐑐𐑫𐑤 𐑯𐑬, 𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑓𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑦 𐑔𐑬𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑤𐑲𐑯-𐑝-𐑚𐑨𐑑𐑩𐑤-𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑤𐑴𐑛𐑟 𐑝 𐑮𐑧𐑛-𐑣𐑺𐑛 𐑛𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑟. 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑛'𐑘𐑰 𐑕𐑱, ·𐑑𐑨𐑖𐑑𐑱𐑜𐑴; 𐑸 𐑿 𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑑 𐑕𐑯𐑨𐑐 𐑘𐑹 𐑕𐑐𐑲𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑑𐑵-𐑯-𐑑𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑦 𐑐𐑰𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑓 𐑞 𐑪𐑯𐑼 𐑝 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑜𐑱𐑣𐑧𐑛? 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑛'𐑘𐑰 𐑕𐑱?”</p>
    <p>“𐑲 𐑕𐑱, 𐑐𐑫𐑤 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑜𐑪𐑛-𐑛𐑨𐑥,”—𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 𐑞 ·𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑾𐑯.</p>
    <p>𐑓𐑽𐑕𐑤𐑦, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑑𐑷𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑡𐑻𐑥𐑩𐑯, 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛'𐑟 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕 𐑯𐑬 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑨𐑯 𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑦𐑙 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑩𐑚𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑; 𐑯, 𐑕𐑴 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑴𐑟𐑛, 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑺𐑦𐑤𐑦 𐑯𐑽𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥. 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑓𐑲𐑯, 𐑤𐑵𐑕, 𐑖𐑦𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑮𐑩𐑕 𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑟𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑛𐑮𐑷𐑦𐑙 𐑯𐑽 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑮𐑱, 𐑞 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑥𐑱𐑑𐑕 𐑕𐑑𐑫𐑛 𐑳𐑐 𐑐𐑮𐑬𐑛𐑤𐑦, 𐑩𐑒𐑱𐑠𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑨𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑹𐑟𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑦𐑤𐑼𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑮𐑲 𐑝, “𐑞𐑺 𐑖𐑰 𐑕𐑤𐑲𐑛𐑟, 𐑯𐑬! 𐑣𐑼𐑭 𐑓 𐑞 𐑢𐑲𐑑-𐑨𐑖 𐑚𐑮𐑰𐑟! 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 ·𐑘𐑸𐑥𐑩𐑯! 𐑕𐑱𐑤 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑣𐑦𐑥!”</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑴 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑲𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑩𐑯 𐑼𐑦𐑡𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑛 ·𐑛𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑒 𐑣𐑨𐑛, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑲𐑑 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑺 𐑜𐑨𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑦, 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑐𐑮𐑵𐑝𐑛 𐑞 𐑝𐑦𐑒𐑑𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑮𐑱𐑕, 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑩 𐑮𐑲𐑗𐑩𐑕 𐑡𐑳𐑡𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑒𐑮𐑨𐑚 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑒𐑷𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑤𐑱𐑛 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑹𐑟𐑥𐑩𐑯. 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑒𐑤𐑳𐑥𐑟𐑦 𐑤𐑳𐑚𐑼 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑰 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑲𐑑-𐑨𐑖, 𐑯 𐑢𐑲𐑤, 𐑦𐑯 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑢𐑩𐑯𐑕, ·𐑛𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑒'𐑕 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑲 𐑑 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑕𐑲𐑟𐑦𐑙, 𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑔𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑢𐑱 𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑥𐑲𐑑𐑦 𐑮𐑱𐑡;—𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑓 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒, ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚, 𐑯 ·𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒. 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑖𐑬𐑑, 𐑞𐑱 𐑑𐑫𐑒 𐑩 𐑥𐑹𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑑 𐑓𐑹𐑢𐑼𐑛𐑟, 𐑯 𐑕𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑛 𐑳𐑐 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑡𐑻𐑥𐑩𐑯'𐑟 𐑒𐑢𐑹𐑑𐑼. 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑥𐑹, 𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑓𐑹 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕 𐑢𐑻 𐑛𐑲𐑨𐑜𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤'𐑟 𐑦𐑥𐑰𐑛𐑾𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑒, 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞𐑧𐑥, 𐑪𐑯 𐑚𐑴𐑔 𐑕𐑲𐑛𐑟, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑓𐑴𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑥𐑱𐑛.</p>
    <p>𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑑𐑼𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒, 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑐𐑦𐑑𐑾𐑚𐑩𐑤, 𐑯 𐑥𐑨𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑲𐑑. 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑬 𐑜𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑬𐑑, 𐑯 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑐𐑬𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑿𐑩𐑤 𐑑𐑹𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑡𐑧𐑑; 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑐𐑫𐑼 𐑓𐑦𐑯 𐑚𐑰𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑩𐑯 𐑨𐑜𐑩𐑯𐑦 𐑝 𐑓𐑮𐑲𐑑. 𐑯𐑬 𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛, 𐑯𐑬 𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑, 𐑣𐑰 𐑘𐑷𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑷𐑤𐑑𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑤𐑲𐑑, 𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑨𐑑 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑚𐑮𐑴𐑒, 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑐𐑨𐑟𐑥𐑪𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑨𐑙𐑒 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑰, 𐑹 𐑕𐑲𐑛𐑢𐑱𐑟 𐑮𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑑𐑩𐑢𐑹𐑛𐑟 𐑞 𐑕𐑒𐑲 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑚𐑰𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑦𐑯. 𐑕𐑴 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑲 𐑕𐑰𐑯 𐑩 𐑚𐑻𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑒𐑤𐑦𐑐𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑓𐑮𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑮𐑴𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑺, 𐑝𐑱𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑱𐑐 𐑞 𐑐𐑲𐑮𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑣𐑷𐑒𐑕. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑻𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑝𐑶𐑕, 𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑝 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑯𐑴𐑯 𐑣𐑻 𐑓𐑽; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑓𐑽 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑝𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑛𐑳𐑥 𐑚𐑮𐑵𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑰, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑗𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑳𐑐 𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑗𐑭𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥; 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑯𐑴 𐑝𐑶𐑕, 𐑕𐑱𐑝 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑗𐑴𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑐𐑼𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑮𐑩𐑒𐑩𐑤, 𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑞 𐑕𐑲𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑳𐑯𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑦𐑑𐑾𐑚𐑩𐑤; 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤, 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑩𐑥𐑱𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑳𐑤𐑒, 𐑐𐑹𐑑𐑒𐑳𐑤𐑦𐑕 𐑡𐑷, 𐑯 𐑪𐑥𐑯𐑦𐑐𐑩𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑑𐑱𐑤, 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑳𐑓 𐑑 𐑩𐑐𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑬𐑑𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑣𐑵 𐑕𐑴 𐑐𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑛.</p>
    <p>𐑕𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑯𐑬 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑓𐑿 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑥𐑹 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑜𐑦𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛'𐑟 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕 𐑞 𐑩𐑛𐑝𐑭𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑡, 𐑯 𐑮𐑭𐑞𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑚𐑰 𐑞𐑳𐑕 𐑓𐑶𐑤𐑛 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑜𐑱𐑥, ·𐑛𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑒 𐑗𐑴𐑟 𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑟𐑼𐑛 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑩 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑳𐑯𐑿𐑠𐑵𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑛𐑸𐑑, 𐑺 𐑞 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑗𐑭𐑯𐑕 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑓 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑱𐑐.</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑯𐑴 𐑕𐑵𐑯𐑼 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑳𐑐 𐑓 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑴𐑒, 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑑𐑲𐑜𐑼𐑟—·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜, ·𐑑𐑨𐑖𐑑𐑱𐑜𐑴, ·𐑛𐑨𐑜𐑵—𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑑𐑦𐑝𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑨𐑙 𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑓𐑰𐑑, 𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑛𐑲𐑨𐑜𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑮𐑴, 𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑤𐑑𐑱𐑯𐑾𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑞𐑺 𐑚𐑸𐑚𐑟; 𐑯 𐑛𐑸𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑡𐑻𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽, 𐑞𐑺 𐑔𐑮𐑰 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑 𐑲𐑼𐑯𐑟 𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑛 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤. 𐑚𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑝𐑱𐑐𐑼𐑟 𐑝 𐑓𐑴𐑥 𐑯 𐑢𐑲𐑑-𐑓𐑲𐑼! 𐑞 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕, 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑓𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑦 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤'𐑟 𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑮𐑳𐑖, 𐑚𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑡𐑻𐑥𐑩𐑯'𐑟 𐑩𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑓𐑹𐑕, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑚𐑴𐑔 ·𐑛𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑒 𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑨𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽 𐑢𐑻 𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑤𐑛 𐑬𐑑, 𐑯 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑛 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑓𐑤𐑲𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑰𐑤𐑟.</p>
    <p>“𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑩𐑓𐑮𐑱𐑛, 𐑥𐑲 𐑚𐑳𐑑𐑼-𐑚𐑪𐑒𐑕𐑩𐑟,” 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚, 𐑒𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑐𐑭𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑜𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑖𐑪𐑑 𐑚𐑲; “𐑘𐑰'𐑤 𐑚𐑰 𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑑 𐑳𐑐 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦—𐑷𐑤 𐑮𐑲𐑑—𐑲 𐑕𐑷 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑖𐑸𐑒𐑕 𐑩𐑕𐑑𐑻𐑯—·𐑕𐑑 ·𐑚𐑻𐑯𐑸𐑛'𐑟 𐑛𐑪𐑜𐑟, 𐑿 𐑯𐑴—𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑰𐑝 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑼𐑟. 𐑣𐑼𐑭! 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑢𐑱 𐑑 𐑕𐑱𐑤 𐑯𐑬. 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑒𐑰𐑤 𐑩 𐑕𐑳𐑯𐑚𐑰𐑥! 𐑣𐑼𐑭!—𐑣𐑽 𐑢𐑰 𐑜𐑴 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑑𐑦𐑯 𐑒𐑧𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑑𐑱𐑤 𐑝 𐑩 𐑥𐑨𐑛 𐑒𐑵𐑜𐑼! 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑐𐑫𐑑𐑕 𐑥𐑰 𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑝 𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑩𐑯 𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑓𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑑𐑦𐑤𐑚𐑼𐑦 𐑪𐑯 𐑩 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯—𐑥𐑱𐑒𐑕 𐑞 𐑢𐑰𐑤-𐑕𐑐𐑴𐑒𐑕 𐑓𐑤𐑲, 𐑚𐑶𐑟, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑿 𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑩𐑯 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑱; 𐑯 𐑞𐑺'𐑟 𐑛𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑼 𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑐𐑦𐑗𐑑 𐑬𐑑 𐑑𐑵, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑿 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑣𐑦𐑤. 𐑣𐑼𐑭! 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑢𐑱 𐑩 𐑓𐑧𐑤𐑴 𐑓𐑰𐑤𐑟 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑣𐑰'𐑟 𐑜𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑑 ·𐑛𐑱𐑝𐑦 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑟—𐑷𐑤 𐑩 𐑮𐑳𐑖 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑩𐑯 𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯! 𐑣𐑼𐑭! 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑒𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑱𐑤!”</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑼'𐑟 𐑮𐑳𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑚𐑮𐑰𐑓 𐑢𐑳𐑯. 𐑜𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑕𐑳𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑜𐑭𐑕𐑐, 𐑣𐑰 𐑑𐑿𐑥𐑳𐑤𐑗𐑵𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛. 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑮𐑳𐑖, 𐑞 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑟 𐑓𐑤𐑵 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑤𐑪𐑜𐑼𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑓𐑹𐑕 𐑨𐑟 𐑑 𐑜𐑬𐑡 𐑛𐑰𐑐 𐑜𐑮𐑵𐑝𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑥; 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑕𐑴 𐑓𐑽𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑻 𐑞 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑮𐑨𐑐𐑦𐑛 𐑕𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑕𐑵𐑯 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑷𐑕𐑑 𐑞 𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑟, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑿𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑺 𐑛𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑩𐑕 𐑥𐑲𐑑, 𐑞𐑱 𐑒𐑷𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑰𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑕𐑥𐑴𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑮𐑴𐑐 𐑑 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑪𐑯; 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑—𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑞 𐑐𐑻𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑼 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑤𐑧𐑛-𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑗𐑪𐑒𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕, 𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑕 𐑞 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑮𐑴𐑐𐑕 𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑚𐑤𐑵—𐑞 𐑜𐑳𐑯𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑬𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼, 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑞 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑕𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑟 𐑑𐑦𐑤𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑲 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑺. 𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑕𐑵𐑯 𐑕𐑰𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑕𐑬𐑯𐑛, 𐑓 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑞𐑱 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛, 𐑓𐑽𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑹 𐑤𐑲𐑯, 𐑞𐑴 𐑞 𐑐𐑩𐑟𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑖. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑴 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑯 𐑤𐑪𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑱, 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑞𐑦𐑕 “𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑯,” 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛; 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑣𐑫𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑐 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑖𐑸𐑐 𐑚𐑸𐑚𐑟 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑲𐑝 𐑓𐑤𐑧𐑖 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑚𐑨𐑒; 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑪𐑓𐑩𐑯 𐑑𐑹𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑞 ·𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑕𐑵𐑯 𐑮𐑲𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯 𐑑 𐑥𐑰𐑑 𐑞 𐑖𐑸𐑐 𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑴𐑟. 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑒 𐑝 𐑞 𐑐𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑤 𐑝 𐑞 𐑔𐑦𐑙, 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑛𐑬𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑒𐑹𐑕 𐑦𐑟 𐑷𐑤𐑢𐑱𐑟 𐑞 𐑚𐑧𐑕𐑑; 𐑓 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑮𐑰𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑿𐑥, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑤𐑪𐑙𐑜𐑼 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑟 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼, 𐑞 𐑥𐑹 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑷𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛. 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑪𐑟, 𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑹𐑥𐑩𐑕 𐑕𐑻𐑓𐑦𐑕 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑥—𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑓𐑫𐑤 𐑜𐑮𐑴𐑯 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑧𐑕 𐑞𐑨𐑯 2000 𐑕𐑒𐑢𐑺 𐑓𐑰𐑑—𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑖𐑼 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑕. 𐑢𐑰 𐑷𐑤 𐑯𐑴 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑩𐑯 𐑩𐑕𐑑𐑪𐑯𐑦𐑖𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑑𐑥𐑩𐑕𐑓𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑒 𐑢𐑱𐑑 𐑢𐑰 𐑬𐑼𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑝𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑳𐑐 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼; 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑽, 𐑩𐑚𐑳𐑝-𐑜𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛, 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑺; 𐑣𐑬 𐑝𐑭𐑕𐑑, 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑞 𐑚𐑻𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑚𐑺𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑨𐑒 𐑩 𐑒𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑥 𐑝 𐑑𐑵 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑛 𐑓𐑨𐑞𐑩𐑥𐑟 𐑝 𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯! 𐑦𐑑 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑰𐑕𐑑 𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑩𐑤 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑑 𐑝 𐑓𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑦 𐑨𐑑𐑥𐑩𐑕𐑓𐑽𐑟. 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑥𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑑 𐑝 𐑑𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑦 𐑤𐑲𐑯-𐑝-𐑚𐑨𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑕, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑺 𐑜𐑳𐑯𐑟, 𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑟, 𐑯 𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑪𐑯 𐑚𐑹𐑛.</p>
    <p>𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕 𐑤𐑱 𐑞𐑺 𐑪𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑴𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑰, 𐑜𐑱𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑦𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑚𐑤𐑵 𐑯𐑵𐑯; 𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑩 𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑩𐑤 𐑜𐑮𐑴𐑯 𐑹 𐑒𐑮𐑲 𐑝 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑕𐑹𐑑, 𐑯𐑱, 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑴 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑩𐑤 𐑹 𐑩 𐑚𐑳𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑳𐑐 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑛𐑧𐑐𐑔𐑕; 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑔𐑷𐑑, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑯𐑰𐑔 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑯 𐑐𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑦𐑑𐑦, 𐑞 𐑳𐑑𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑼 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑰𐑟 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑮𐑲𐑞𐑦𐑙 𐑯 𐑮𐑧𐑯𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑨𐑜𐑩𐑯𐑦! 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑱𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑗𐑩𐑟 𐑝 𐑐𐑻𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑼 𐑮𐑴𐑐 𐑢𐑻 𐑝𐑦𐑟𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑬𐑟. 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑒𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑔𐑦𐑯 𐑔𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑟 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 ·𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑩𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞 𐑚𐑦𐑜 𐑢𐑱𐑑 𐑑 𐑩𐑯 𐑱𐑑 𐑛𐑱 𐑒𐑤𐑪𐑒. 𐑕𐑩𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛? 𐑯 𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑑? 𐑑 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑚𐑹𐑛. 𐑦𐑟 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑗𐑼 𐑝 𐑣𐑵𐑥 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕 𐑕𐑴 𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑳𐑥𐑓𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑧𐑛—“𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑬 𐑓𐑦𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑒𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑚𐑸𐑚𐑛 𐑲𐑼𐑯𐑟? 𐑹 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑓𐑦𐑖-𐑕𐑐𐑽𐑟? 𐑞 𐑕𐑹𐑛 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑱𐑩𐑔 𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛, 𐑞 𐑕𐑐𐑽, 𐑞 𐑛𐑸𐑑, 𐑯𐑹 𐑞 𐑣𐑨𐑚𐑼𐑡𐑩𐑯: 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑥𐑩𐑔 𐑲𐑼𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑷; 𐑞 𐑨𐑮𐑴 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑓𐑤𐑰; 𐑛𐑸𐑑𐑕 𐑸 𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑨𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚𐑩𐑤; 𐑣𐑰 𐑤𐑭𐑓𐑩𐑔 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑖𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑩 𐑕𐑐𐑽!” 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑗𐑼? 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑣𐑰? 𐑴! 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑳𐑯𐑓𐑫𐑤𐑓𐑦𐑤𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑓𐑪𐑤𐑴 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑓𐑩𐑑𐑕. 𐑓 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑙𐑔 𐑝 𐑩 𐑔𐑬𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑔𐑲𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑱𐑤, ·𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑮𐑳𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑞 𐑥𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑰, 𐑑 𐑣𐑲𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛'𐑟 𐑓𐑦𐑖-𐑕𐑐𐑽𐑟!</p>
    <p>𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑤𐑴𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼𐑯𐑵𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑯𐑤𐑲𐑑, 𐑞 𐑖𐑨𐑛𐑴𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑯𐑰𐑔 𐑞 𐑕𐑻𐑓𐑦𐑕, 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑦𐑯𐑳𐑓 𐑯 𐑚𐑮𐑷𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑳𐑓 𐑑 𐑖𐑱𐑛 𐑣𐑭𐑓 ·𐑟𐑻𐑒𐑕𐑰𐑟' 𐑸𐑥𐑦. 𐑣𐑵 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑑𐑧𐑤 𐑣𐑬 𐑩𐑐𐑷𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑵𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑣𐑿𐑡 𐑓𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑥𐑟 𐑓𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑧𐑛!</p>
    <p>“𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑚𐑲, 𐑥𐑧𐑯; 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑑𐑻𐑟,” 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒, 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑝𐑲𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼, 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑛𐑳𐑒𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑐𐑢𐑼𐑛𐑟 𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑥, 𐑨𐑟 𐑚𐑲 𐑥𐑨𐑜𐑯𐑧𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑢𐑲𐑼𐑟, 𐑞 𐑤𐑲𐑓 𐑯 𐑛𐑧𐑔 𐑔𐑮𐑪𐑚𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑹𐑟𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑓𐑧𐑤𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑰𐑑. 𐑞 𐑯𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑, 𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑰𐑝𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑛𐑬𐑯𐑢𐑼𐑛 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑬𐑟, 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕 𐑜𐑱𐑝 𐑩 𐑕𐑳𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑚𐑬𐑯𐑕 𐑳𐑐𐑢𐑼𐑛𐑟, 𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤 𐑲𐑕𐑓𐑰𐑤𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑤, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑩 𐑛𐑧𐑯𐑕 𐑣𐑻𐑛 𐑝 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑚𐑺𐑟 𐑸 𐑕𐑒𐑺𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑕𐑰.</p>
    <p>“𐑣𐑷𐑤 𐑦𐑯! 𐑣𐑷𐑤 𐑦𐑯!” 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯; “𐑣𐑰'𐑟 𐑮𐑲𐑟𐑦𐑙.”</p>
    <p>𐑞 𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑟, 𐑝 𐑢𐑦𐑗, 𐑣𐑸𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹, 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛'𐑟 𐑚𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑔 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑛, 𐑢𐑻 𐑯𐑬 𐑦𐑯 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑒 𐑒𐑶𐑤𐑟 𐑓𐑤𐑳𐑙 𐑚𐑨𐑒 𐑷𐑤 𐑛𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕, 𐑯 𐑕𐑵𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑚𐑮𐑴𐑒 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑦𐑯 𐑑𐑵 𐑖𐑦𐑐'𐑕 𐑤𐑧𐑙𐑔𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑟.</p>
    <p>𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑴𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑰𐑥 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑷𐑕𐑗𐑩𐑯. 𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑞𐑺 𐑸 𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑝𐑨𐑤𐑝𐑟 𐑹 𐑓𐑤𐑳𐑛-𐑜𐑱𐑑𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑝 𐑞𐑺 𐑝𐑱𐑯𐑟, 𐑢𐑺𐑚𐑲 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑢𐑵𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛, 𐑞 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑛 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑛𐑦𐑜𐑮𐑰 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑰𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑖𐑳𐑑 𐑪𐑓 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟. 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑴 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤; 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑣𐑵𐑟 𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑦𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑲𐑼 𐑯𐑪𐑯-𐑝𐑨𐑤𐑝𐑿𐑤𐑼 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑒𐑗𐑼 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑛-𐑝𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑟, 𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑐𐑽𐑕𐑑 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑚𐑲 𐑕𐑴 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤 𐑩 𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯, 𐑩 𐑛𐑧𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑮𐑱𐑯 𐑦𐑟 𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑳𐑯 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑸𐑑𐑽𐑾𐑤 𐑕𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑥; 𐑯 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑹𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑼𐑦 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑖𐑼 𐑝 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼 𐑨𐑑 𐑩 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑴 𐑞 𐑕𐑻𐑓𐑦𐑕, 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑲𐑓 𐑥𐑱 𐑚𐑰 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑑 𐑐𐑹 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑦𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑰𐑥𐑟. 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑕𐑴 𐑝𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑯 𐑕𐑴 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑯 𐑯𐑿𐑥𐑼𐑩𐑕 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑽𐑽 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑟, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑒𐑰𐑐 𐑞𐑳𐑕 𐑚𐑤𐑰𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑯 𐑚𐑤𐑰𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑓 𐑩 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑐𐑽𐑾𐑛; 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑛𐑮𐑬𐑑 𐑩 𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑼 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑓𐑤𐑴, 𐑣𐑵𐑟 𐑕𐑹𐑕 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑧𐑤-𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑝 𐑓𐑸-𐑪𐑓 𐑯 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑻𐑯𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑤𐑟. 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑯𐑬, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕 𐑐𐑫𐑤𐑛 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑯 𐑐𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑮𐑵 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑢𐑱𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑤𐑵𐑒𐑕, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑛𐑸𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑞𐑱 𐑢𐑻 𐑓𐑪𐑤𐑴𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑛𐑦 𐑡𐑧𐑑𐑕 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑯𐑿 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑢𐑵𐑯𐑛, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑒𐑧𐑐𐑑 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑿𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑦𐑙, 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑞 𐑯𐑨𐑗𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑐𐑬𐑑-𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑟, 𐑣𐑬𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑮𐑨𐑐𐑦𐑛, 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑩𐑓𐑮𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑥𐑶𐑕𐑗𐑼 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑺. 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑯𐑴 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑛 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑒𐑱𐑥, 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑴 𐑝𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑞𐑳𐑕 𐑓𐑸 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑒. 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑲𐑓, 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑱 𐑕𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑷𐑤 𐑦𐑑, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑗𐑑.</p>
    <p>𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕 𐑯𐑬 𐑥𐑹 𐑒𐑤𐑴𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑼𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑳𐑐𐑼 𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑹𐑥, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑝 𐑦𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑹𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑺𐑦𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑥𐑻𐑡𐑛, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑰𐑤𐑛. 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑲𐑟, 𐑹 𐑮𐑭𐑞𐑼 𐑞 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑢𐑺 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑲𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑰𐑯, 𐑢𐑻 𐑚𐑦𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑛. 𐑨𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡 𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑜𐑮𐑴𐑯 𐑥𐑨𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑜𐑨𐑞𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑯𐑪𐑑-𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑯𐑴𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑴𐑒𐑕 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑, 𐑕𐑴 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤'𐑟 𐑲𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕 𐑪𐑒𐑿𐑐𐑲𐑛, 𐑯𐑬 𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑑𐑮𐑵𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑚𐑳𐑤𐑚𐑟, 𐑣𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑦𐑑𐑾𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑑 𐑕𐑰. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑐𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑳𐑯. 𐑓 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑱𐑡, 𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑸𐑥, 𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑲𐑟, 𐑣𐑰 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑛𐑲 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑔 𐑯 𐑚𐑰 𐑥𐑻𐑛𐑼𐑛, 𐑦𐑯 𐑹𐑛𐑼 𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑑 𐑞 𐑜𐑱 𐑚𐑮𐑲𐑛𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑯 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑥𐑧𐑮𐑦-𐑥𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑝 𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑯 𐑷𐑤𐑕𐑴 𐑑 𐑦𐑤𐑵𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑱𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑥 𐑗𐑻𐑗𐑩𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑰𐑗 𐑳𐑯𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑓𐑧𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑝𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑚𐑲 𐑷𐑤 𐑑 𐑷𐑤. 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑮𐑴𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑛, 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑐𐑸𐑖𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑤𐑴𐑟𐑛 𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑳𐑤𐑼𐑛 𐑚𐑳𐑯𐑗 𐑹 𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑑𐑿𐑚𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑕, 𐑞 𐑕𐑲𐑟 𐑝 𐑩 𐑚𐑫𐑖𐑩𐑤, 𐑤𐑴 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑤𐑨𐑙𐑒.</p>
    <p>“𐑩 𐑯𐑲𐑕 𐑕𐑐𐑪𐑑,” 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 ·𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒; “𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑥𐑰 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑒 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕.”</p>
    <p>“𐑩𐑝𐑭𐑕𐑑!” 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒, “𐑞𐑺'𐑟 𐑯𐑴 𐑯𐑰𐑛 𐑝 𐑞𐑨𐑑!”</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑣𐑿𐑥𐑱𐑯 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑑𐑵 𐑤𐑱𐑑. 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑛𐑸𐑑 𐑩𐑯 𐑳𐑤𐑕𐑼𐑩𐑕 𐑡𐑧𐑑 𐑖𐑪𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑵𐑯𐑛, 𐑯 𐑜𐑴𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑥𐑹 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑓𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑨𐑙𐑜𐑢𐑦𐑖, 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑯𐑬 𐑕𐑐𐑬𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑔𐑦𐑒 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑛, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑓𐑑 𐑓𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑦 𐑚𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑸𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑭𐑓𐑑, 𐑚𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑨𐑑𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑜𐑤𐑹𐑦𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑟 𐑷𐑤 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑖𐑬𐑼𐑟 𐑝 𐑜𐑹, 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑕𐑲𐑟𐑦𐑙 ·𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒'𐑕 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑯 𐑥𐑸𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑚𐑬𐑟. 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑧𐑔 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑴𐑒. 𐑓, 𐑚𐑲 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑑𐑲𐑥, 𐑕𐑴 𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑚𐑲 𐑤𐑪𐑕 𐑝 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑛, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑐𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑩𐑢𐑱 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑮𐑧𐑒 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑥𐑱𐑛; 𐑤𐑱 𐑐𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑲𐑛, 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑤𐑨𐑐𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑑 𐑓𐑦𐑯, 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑯 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑕𐑤𐑴𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑪𐑤𐑝𐑛 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛; 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑛 𐑳𐑐 𐑞 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑒𐑮𐑩𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑧𐑤𐑦; 𐑤𐑱 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑤𐑪𐑜, 𐑯 𐑛𐑲𐑛. 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑐𐑦𐑑𐑾𐑕, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑲𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑐𐑬𐑑. 𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑚𐑲 𐑳𐑯𐑕𐑰𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑞 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼 𐑦𐑟 𐑜𐑮𐑨𐑡𐑵𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑮𐑷𐑯 𐑪𐑓 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑥𐑲𐑑𐑦 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑯, 𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑭𐑓-𐑕𐑑𐑲𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑥𐑧𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑒𐑪𐑤𐑦 𐑜𐑻𐑜𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑞 𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑱-𐑒𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑥 𐑤𐑴𐑼𐑟 𐑯 𐑤𐑴𐑼𐑟 𐑑 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛—𐑕𐑴 𐑞 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑛𐑲𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑐𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤.</p>
    <p>𐑕𐑵𐑯, 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑩𐑢𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑼𐑲𐑝𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐, 𐑞 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦 𐑖𐑴𐑛 𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑑𐑩𐑥𐑟 𐑝 𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑷𐑤 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑠𐑼𐑟 𐑳𐑯𐑮𐑲𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑛. 𐑦𐑥𐑰𐑛𐑾𐑑𐑤𐑦, 𐑚𐑲 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒'𐑕 𐑹𐑛𐑼𐑟, 𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑛 𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑𐑕, 𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑺 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑚𐑶; 𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑙𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑩𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑩 𐑓𐑿 𐑦𐑯𐑗𐑩𐑟 𐑚𐑦𐑯𐑰𐑔 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑒𐑹𐑛𐑟. 𐑚𐑲 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑣𐑰𐑛𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑡𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑛𐑮𐑵 𐑯𐑲, 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑓𐑻𐑛 𐑑 𐑣𐑻 𐑕𐑲𐑛, 𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑪𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑛 𐑞𐑺 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑓𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑓𐑤𐑵𐑒-𐑗𐑱𐑯𐑟, 𐑓 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑧𐑕 𐑸𐑑𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑳𐑐𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑛, 𐑞 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕 𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑥.</p>
    <p>𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑴 𐑗𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑒𐑳𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑕𐑐𐑱𐑛, 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑲𐑼 𐑤𐑧𐑙𐑔 𐑝 𐑩 𐑒𐑼𐑴𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑥𐑚𐑧𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑤𐑧𐑖, 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑤𐑴𐑼 𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑳𐑯𐑗 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑚𐑛. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑕 𐑝 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑟 𐑸 𐑓𐑮𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑛 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦𐑟 𐑝 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑗𐑼𐑛 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑓𐑤𐑧𐑖 𐑐𐑻𐑓𐑦𐑒𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑰𐑤𐑛 𐑼𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑞𐑧𐑥, 𐑯 𐑯𐑴 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑝 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑒𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑴𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕; 𐑞𐑺𐑓𐑹, 𐑞𐑺 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑯𐑰𐑛𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑳𐑯𐑯𐑴𐑯 𐑮𐑰𐑟𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑒𐑱𐑕 𐑓𐑫𐑤𐑦 𐑑 𐑩𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑 𐑓 𐑞 𐑳𐑤𐑕𐑼𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑩𐑤𐑵𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑑. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑥𐑹 𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑾𐑕 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑓𐑨𐑒𐑑 𐑝 𐑩 𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕-𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑝 𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑯 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑓𐑸 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑚𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑛 𐑲𐑼𐑯, 𐑞 𐑓𐑤𐑧𐑖 𐑐𐑻𐑓𐑦𐑒𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑻𐑥 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑦𐑑. 𐑣𐑵 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑛𐑸𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑯 𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕? 𐑯 𐑢𐑧𐑯? 𐑦𐑑 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑛𐑸𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑕𐑳𐑥 ·𐑯𐑹' ·𐑢𐑧𐑕𐑑 ·𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑾𐑯 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 ·𐑩𐑥𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑳𐑝𐑼𐑛.</p>
    <p>𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑥𐑸𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑮𐑳𐑥𐑦𐑡𐑛 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑕 𐑒𐑨𐑚𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑴 𐑑𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑙. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 𐑕𐑳𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑪𐑐 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑐𐑫𐑑 𐑑 𐑓𐑻𐑞𐑼 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑳𐑝𐑼𐑦𐑟, 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐'𐑕 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑯𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑮𐑨𐑜𐑛 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑕𐑲𐑛𐑢𐑱𐑟 𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑰, 𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦'𐑟 𐑦𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦 𐑑 𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑒. 𐑣𐑬𐑧𐑝𐑼, ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒, 𐑣𐑵 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑞 𐑹𐑛𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑩𐑓𐑺𐑟, 𐑣𐑳𐑙 𐑪𐑯 𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑑 𐑞 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑; 𐑣𐑳𐑙 𐑪𐑯 𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑴 𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑤𐑵𐑑𐑤𐑦, 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑰𐑛, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑧𐑙𐑔 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑕𐑲𐑟𐑛, 𐑦𐑓 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑤𐑪𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑸𐑥𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦; 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑛 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑜𐑦𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑑 𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑒 𐑒𐑤𐑽 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑦𐑑, 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑦𐑥𐑵𐑝𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑑𐑦𐑥𐑚𐑼-𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑟 𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑞 𐑓𐑤𐑵𐑒-𐑗𐑱𐑯𐑟 𐑯 𐑒𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑛, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑪𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑑 𐑒𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑪𐑓. 𐑥𐑰𐑯𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑑. 𐑑 𐑒𐑮𐑪𐑕 𐑑 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑒 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑢𐑷𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑐 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑐 𐑜𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑮𐑵𐑓 𐑝 𐑩 𐑣𐑬𐑕. 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑜𐑮𐑴𐑯𐑛 𐑯 𐑜𐑭𐑕𐑐𐑑. 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑝 𐑞 𐑲𐑝𐑼𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑤𐑱𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑝 𐑣𐑻 𐑚𐑫𐑤𐑢𐑼𐑒𐑕 𐑯 𐑒𐑨𐑚𐑦𐑯𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞𐑺 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑟, 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑳𐑯𐑯𐑨𐑗𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑤𐑴𐑒𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯. 𐑦𐑯 𐑝𐑱𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑕𐑐𐑲𐑒𐑕 𐑯 𐑒𐑮𐑴𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑚𐑮𐑷𐑑 𐑑 𐑚𐑺 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑦𐑥𐑵𐑝𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑓𐑤𐑵𐑒-𐑗𐑱𐑯𐑟, 𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑲 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑩𐑛𐑮𐑦𐑓𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑑𐑦𐑥𐑚𐑼𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑟; 𐑯 𐑕𐑴 𐑤𐑴 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑯𐑬 𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑥𐑻𐑡𐑛 𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑩𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑗𐑑, 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑑𐑳𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑐𐑪𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑪𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑨𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑳𐑤𐑒, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑜𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑴𐑝𐑼.</p>
    <p>“𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑪𐑯, 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑪𐑯, 𐑢𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑘𐑰?” 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚 𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦, “𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑛𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑩 𐑣𐑳𐑮𐑦 𐑑 𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑒! 𐑚𐑲 𐑔𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼, 𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑢𐑰 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑛𐑵 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑹 𐑜𐑴 𐑓 𐑦𐑑. 𐑯𐑴 𐑿𐑕 𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑺; 𐑩𐑝𐑭𐑕𐑑, 𐑲 𐑕𐑱 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑘𐑹 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑕𐑐𐑲𐑒𐑕, 𐑯 𐑮𐑳𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑘𐑰 𐑓 𐑩 𐑐𐑮𐑱𐑼 𐑚𐑫𐑒 𐑯 𐑩 𐑐𐑧𐑯-𐑯𐑲𐑓, 𐑯 𐑒𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑦𐑜 𐑗𐑱𐑯𐑟.”</p>
    <p>“𐑯𐑲𐑓? 𐑲, 𐑲,” 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜, 𐑯 𐑕𐑰𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑒𐑸𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑼'𐑟 𐑣𐑧𐑝𐑦 𐑣𐑨𐑗𐑩𐑑, 𐑣𐑰 𐑤𐑰𐑯𐑛 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑩 𐑐𐑹𐑑𐑣𐑴𐑤, 𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤 𐑑 𐑲𐑼𐑯, 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑨𐑯 𐑕𐑤𐑨𐑖𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑤𐑸𐑡𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑓𐑤𐑵𐑒-𐑗𐑱𐑯𐑟. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 𐑓𐑿 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑴𐑒𐑕, 𐑓𐑫𐑤 𐑝 𐑕𐑐𐑸𐑒𐑕, 𐑢𐑻 𐑜𐑦𐑝𐑩𐑯, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑰𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯 𐑦𐑓𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑞 𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑. 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑑𐑼𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒 𐑕𐑯𐑨𐑐, 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑩𐑛𐑮𐑦𐑓𐑑; 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑮𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑞 𐑒𐑸𐑒𐑩𐑕 𐑕𐑨𐑙𐑒.</p>
    <p>𐑯𐑬, 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑩𐑒𐑱𐑠𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑞 𐑮𐑰𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑛 ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑦𐑟 𐑩 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑾𐑕 𐑔𐑦𐑙; 𐑯𐑹 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑨𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑢𐑩𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑓 𐑦𐑑. 𐑿𐑠𐑵𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑛 ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑓𐑤𐑴𐑑𐑕 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑚𐑶𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑹 𐑚𐑧𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑩𐑚𐑳𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑻𐑓𐑦𐑕. 𐑦𐑓 𐑞 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑳𐑕 𐑕𐑨𐑙𐑒 𐑢𐑻 𐑴𐑤𐑛, 𐑥𐑰𐑜𐑼, 𐑯 𐑚𐑮𐑴𐑒𐑩𐑯-𐑣𐑸𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑗𐑼𐑟, 𐑞𐑺 𐑐𐑨𐑛𐑟 𐑝 𐑤𐑸𐑛 𐑛𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑖𐑑 𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑺 𐑚𐑴𐑯𐑟 𐑣𐑧𐑝𐑦 𐑯 𐑮𐑵𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑒; 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑿 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑮𐑰𐑟𐑩𐑯 𐑩𐑕𐑻𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑷𐑟𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑩𐑯 𐑳𐑯𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑕𐑐𐑩𐑕𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒 𐑜𐑮𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑦𐑖 𐑕𐑴 𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑦𐑙, 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑢𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑨𐑚𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑝 𐑚𐑶𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑴. 𐑓 𐑘𐑳𐑙 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟, 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑣𐑲𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑔, 𐑯 𐑕𐑢𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑯𐑴𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑨𐑕𐑐𐑼𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟, 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑥𐑩𐑗𐑫𐑼𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑳𐑑 𐑪𐑓 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑹𐑥 𐑓𐑤𐑳𐑖 𐑯 𐑥𐑱 𐑝 𐑤𐑲𐑓, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑺 𐑐𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑸𐑛 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑥; 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑚𐑮𐑷𐑯𐑦, 𐑚𐑶𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑣𐑽𐑴𐑟 𐑛𐑵 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑒.</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑰 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑧𐑛, 𐑣𐑬𐑧𐑝𐑼, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑸 𐑤𐑧𐑕 𐑤𐑲𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑨𐑒𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑖𐑰𐑟. 𐑢𐑺 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑜𐑴 𐑛𐑬𐑯, 𐑑𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑦 ·𐑮𐑲𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑛𐑵. 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑖𐑰𐑟 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑴 𐑛𐑬𐑑 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑿𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑯𐑴 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤 𐑛𐑦𐑜𐑮𐑰 𐑑 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑼 𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑚𐑴𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑮𐑲𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤; 𐑣𐑦𐑟 ·𐑝𐑩𐑯𐑰𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑚𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑩𐑤𐑴𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑢𐑱𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑹 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑩 𐑑𐑳𐑯; 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑮𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑮𐑰. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑸 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑢𐑺, 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑞 𐑤𐑨𐑐𐑕 𐑝 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑬𐑼𐑟 𐑹 𐑕𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑛𐑱𐑟, 𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑙𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯 𐑮𐑲𐑟𐑩𐑟, 𐑥𐑹 𐑚𐑶𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑤𐑲𐑓. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑮𐑰𐑟𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑦𐑟 𐑪𐑚𐑝𐑾𐑕. 𐑜𐑨𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑸 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥; 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑢𐑧𐑤𐑟 𐑑 𐑩 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑛𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑕 𐑥𐑨𐑜𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛; 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑟 𐑩 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑤 𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑵𐑯. 𐑩 𐑤𐑲𐑯-𐑝-𐑚𐑨𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑣𐑸𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑰𐑐 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑞𐑧𐑯. 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑖𐑹 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙, 𐑪𐑯 𐑕𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙𐑟, 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑞 ·𐑚𐑱𐑟 𐑝 ·𐑯𐑿 ·𐑟𐑰𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑩 ·𐑮𐑲𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑜𐑦𐑝𐑟 𐑑𐑴𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑦𐑙, 𐑞𐑱 𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑩𐑯 𐑚𐑶𐑟 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑐𐑤𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑮𐑴𐑐; 𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑜𐑪𐑯 𐑛𐑬𐑯, 𐑞𐑱 𐑯𐑴 𐑢𐑺 𐑑 𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑓 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑦𐑑 𐑖𐑨𐑤 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑩𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯.</p>
    <p>𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑞 𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑩 𐑒𐑮𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑣𐑻𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛'𐑟 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑-𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑟, 𐑩𐑯𐑬𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑿𐑙𐑓𐑮𐑬 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯 𐑤𐑴𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑻 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕; 𐑞𐑴 𐑞 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑐𐑬𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑲𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑝 𐑩 ·𐑓𐑦𐑯-𐑚𐑨𐑒, 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑪𐑙𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑖𐑰𐑟 𐑝 𐑳𐑯𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑗𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟, 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑪𐑟 𐑝 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑐𐑬𐑼 𐑝 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑙. 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑞𐑩𐑤𐑧𐑕, 𐑞 ·𐑓𐑦𐑯-𐑚𐑨𐑒'𐑕 𐑕𐑐𐑬𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑴 𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑤𐑼 𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤'𐑟, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑳𐑯𐑕𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑪𐑓𐑩𐑯 𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑓 𐑦𐑑. 𐑯 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑢𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 ·𐑛𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑒 𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑻 𐑯𐑬 𐑦𐑯 𐑝𐑨𐑤𐑾𐑯𐑑 𐑗𐑱𐑕 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑳𐑯𐑯𐑽𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑚𐑮𐑵𐑑. 𐑞 ·𐑝𐑻𐑡𐑦𐑯 𐑒𐑮𐑬𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑷𐑤 𐑕𐑱𐑤, 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑣𐑻 𐑓𐑹 𐑘𐑳𐑙 𐑒𐑰𐑤𐑟, 𐑯 𐑞𐑳𐑕 𐑞𐑱 𐑷𐑤 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑽𐑛 𐑓𐑸 𐑑 𐑤𐑰𐑢𐑼𐑛, 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑚𐑴𐑤𐑛, 𐑣𐑴𐑐𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑗𐑱𐑕.</p>
    <p>𐑴! 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑸 𐑞 ·𐑓𐑦𐑯-·𐑚𐑨𐑒𐑕, 𐑯 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑸 𐑞 ·𐑛𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑕, 𐑥𐑲 𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑯𐑛.</p>
  </body>
</html>
