<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Chapter 100</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="chapter-100" xml:lang="en-US">
      <h2 id="chapterheader-100">·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 100. 𐑤𐑧𐑜 𐑯 ·𐑸𐑥.</h2>
    </div>
    <p>“𐑖𐑦𐑐, 𐑩𐑣𐑶! 𐑣𐑨𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑢𐑲𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤?”</p>
    <p>𐑕𐑴 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚, 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕 𐑥𐑹 𐑣𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑖𐑴𐑦𐑙 ·𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑤𐑦𐑖 𐑒𐑳𐑤𐑼𐑟, 𐑚𐑺𐑦𐑙 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑻𐑯. 𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑑 𐑑 𐑥𐑬𐑞, 𐑞 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑶𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑒𐑢𐑹𐑑𐑼-𐑚𐑴𐑑, 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑲𐑝𐑼𐑦 𐑤𐑧𐑜 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑰𐑤𐑛 𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑼 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯, 𐑣𐑵 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑒𐑺𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯 𐑚𐑴𐑑'𐑕 𐑚𐑬. 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑛𐑸𐑒𐑤𐑦-𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛, 𐑚𐑻𐑤𐑦, 𐑜𐑫𐑛-𐑯𐑱𐑗𐑼𐑛, 𐑓𐑲𐑯-𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑨𐑯, 𐑝 𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑦 𐑹 𐑞𐑺𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑𐑕, 𐑛𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑕𐑐𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑕 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑳𐑙 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑦𐑯 𐑓𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑵𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑚𐑤𐑵 𐑐𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑑-𐑒𐑤𐑪𐑔; 𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑑𐑦 𐑸𐑥 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑡𐑨𐑒𐑩𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑚𐑦𐑣𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞 𐑚𐑮𐑶𐑛𐑼𐑛 𐑸𐑥 𐑝 𐑩 𐑣𐑵𐑕𐑸'𐑟 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑴𐑑.</p>
    <p>“𐑣𐑨𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑢𐑲𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤?”</p>
    <p>“𐑕𐑰 𐑿 𐑞𐑦𐑕?” 𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑛𐑮𐑷𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑓𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑑, 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑛 𐑳𐑐 𐑩 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑸𐑥 𐑝 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑚𐑴𐑯, 𐑑𐑻𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑢𐑫𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑥𐑨𐑤𐑩𐑑.</p>
    <p>“𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑥𐑲 𐑚𐑴𐑑!” 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚, 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑧𐑗𐑵𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦, 𐑯 𐑑𐑪𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑞 𐑹𐑟 𐑯𐑽 𐑣𐑦𐑥—“𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑑 𐑤𐑴𐑼!”</p>
    <p>𐑦𐑯 𐑤𐑧𐑕 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑩 𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑑, 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑 𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑮𐑭𐑓𐑑, 𐑣𐑰 𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑮𐑵 𐑢𐑻 𐑛𐑮𐑪𐑐𐑑 𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼, 𐑯 𐑢𐑻 𐑕𐑵𐑯 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑼. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑣𐑽 𐑩 𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑾𐑕 𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒𐑳𐑤𐑑𐑦 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑑𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓. 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑲𐑑𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑, ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑓𐑼𐑜𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑕 𐑞 𐑤𐑪𐑕 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑧𐑜 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕 𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑐𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑚𐑹𐑛 𐑝 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑝𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑤 𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑰 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯, 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑷𐑤𐑢𐑱𐑟 𐑚𐑲 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑡𐑰𐑯𐑾𐑕 𐑯 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦 𐑥𐑦𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑝𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑽 𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛, 𐑯 𐑩 𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑛 𐑯 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑝𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑤 𐑨𐑑 𐑩 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑'𐑕 𐑢𐑹𐑯𐑦𐑙. 𐑯𐑬, 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑴 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑰𐑟𐑦 𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑼 𐑓 𐑧𐑯𐑦𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦—𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑧𐑐𐑑 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑣𐑵 𐑸 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑬𐑼𐑤𐑦 𐑿𐑟𐑛 𐑑 𐑦𐑑, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯—𐑑 𐑒𐑤𐑨𐑥𐑚𐑼 𐑳𐑐 𐑩 𐑖𐑦𐑐'𐑕 𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑩 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑴𐑐𐑩𐑯 𐑕𐑰; 𐑓 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑕𐑢𐑧𐑤𐑟 𐑯𐑬 𐑤𐑦𐑓𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑣𐑲 𐑳𐑐 𐑑𐑩𐑢𐑹𐑛𐑟 𐑞 𐑚𐑫𐑤𐑢𐑼𐑒𐑕, 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑱𐑯𐑾𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑮𐑪𐑐 𐑦𐑑 𐑣𐑭𐑓 𐑢𐑱 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑑 𐑞 𐑒𐑧𐑤𐑕𐑩𐑯. 𐑕𐑴, 𐑛𐑦𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑝𐑛 𐑝 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑤𐑧𐑜, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑝 𐑒𐑹𐑕 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑷𐑤𐑑𐑩𐑜𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑳𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑤𐑲𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑒𐑲𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑯, ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑯𐑬 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑨𐑚𐑡𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑦𐑛𐑿𐑕𐑑 𐑑 𐑩 𐑒𐑤𐑳𐑥𐑟𐑦 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯; 𐑣𐑴𐑐𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑲𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑳𐑯𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑗𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑣𐑲𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑣𐑸𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑴𐑐 𐑑 𐑩𐑑𐑱𐑯.</p>
    <p>𐑦𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑐𐑼𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑕, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑢𐑹𐑛 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑕 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑧𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑨𐑙 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑳𐑒𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑣𐑨𐑐, 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑺𐑾𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑹 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑨𐑕𐑐𐑼𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚. 𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕, 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑣𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑕𐑲𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑑𐑵 𐑪𐑓𐑦𐑕𐑼𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡 𐑖𐑦𐑐, 𐑤𐑰𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 𐑕𐑲𐑛, 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑐𐑻𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑼 𐑤𐑨𐑛𐑼 𐑝 𐑯𐑱𐑤𐑛 𐑒𐑤𐑰𐑑𐑕 𐑞𐑺, 𐑯 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑙𐑦𐑙 𐑑𐑩𐑢𐑹𐑛𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑩 𐑐𐑺 𐑝 𐑑𐑱𐑕𐑑𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑦-𐑹𐑯𐑩𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑥𐑨𐑯-𐑮𐑴𐑐𐑕; 𐑓 𐑨𐑑 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑱 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥 𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑩 𐑢𐑳𐑯-𐑤𐑧𐑜𐑩𐑛 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑑𐑵 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑝 𐑩 𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑩𐑤 𐑑 𐑿𐑟 𐑞𐑺 𐑕𐑰 𐑚𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑟. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑷𐑒𐑢𐑼𐑛𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑩 𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑑, 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯, 𐑩𐑚𐑟𐑻𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑑 𐑩 𐑜𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕 𐑣𐑬 𐑩𐑓𐑺𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑫𐑛, 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 𐑬𐑑, “𐑲 𐑕𐑰, 𐑲 𐑕𐑰!—𐑩𐑝𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑰𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑺! 𐑡𐑳𐑥𐑐, 𐑚𐑶𐑟, 𐑯 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑙 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 𐑒𐑳𐑑𐑦𐑙-𐑑𐑨𐑒𐑩𐑤.”</p>
    <p>𐑨𐑟 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑤𐑳𐑒 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑦𐑑, 𐑞𐑱 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑩 𐑛𐑱 𐑹 𐑑𐑵 𐑐𐑮𐑰𐑝𐑾𐑕, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑑𐑨𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑓𐑑, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑕𐑦𐑝 𐑒𐑻𐑝𐑛 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑚𐑼-𐑣𐑫𐑒, 𐑯𐑬 𐑒𐑤𐑰𐑯 𐑯 𐑛𐑮𐑲, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑩𐑑𐑨𐑗𐑑 𐑑 𐑞 𐑧𐑯𐑛. 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑴𐑼𐑛 𐑑 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚, 𐑣𐑵 𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑣𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑑 𐑷𐑤, 𐑕𐑤𐑦𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑔𐑲 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑒𐑻𐑝 𐑝 𐑞 𐑣𐑫𐑒 (𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑤𐑵𐑒 𐑝 𐑩𐑯 𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑼, 𐑹 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑪𐑗 𐑝 𐑩𐑯 𐑨𐑐𐑩𐑤 𐑑𐑮𐑰), 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑜𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑛, 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑑, 𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑷𐑤𐑕𐑴 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑐𐑑 𐑑 𐑣𐑶𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑑, 𐑚𐑲 𐑐𐑫𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛-𐑴𐑝𐑼-𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑮𐑳𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑐𐑸𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑑𐑨𐑒𐑩𐑤. 𐑕𐑵𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑒𐑺𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑢𐑳𐑙 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑞 𐑣𐑲 𐑚𐑫𐑤𐑢𐑼𐑒𐑕, 𐑯 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑧𐑛. 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑲𐑝𐑼𐑦 𐑸𐑥 𐑓𐑮𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑤𐑦 𐑔𐑮𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑓𐑹𐑔 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑧𐑤𐑒𐑩𐑥, 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 𐑩𐑛𐑝𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑑, 𐑯 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚, 𐑐𐑫𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑲𐑝𐑼𐑦 𐑤𐑧𐑜, 𐑯 𐑒𐑮𐑪𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑲𐑝𐑼𐑦 𐑸𐑥 (𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑑𐑵 𐑕𐑹𐑛-𐑓𐑦𐑖 𐑚𐑤𐑱𐑛𐑟) 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 𐑬𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑷𐑤𐑮𐑩𐑕 𐑢𐑱, “𐑲, 𐑲, 𐑣𐑸𐑑𐑦! 𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑳𐑕 𐑖𐑱𐑒 𐑚𐑴𐑯𐑟 𐑑𐑩𐑜𐑧𐑞𐑼!—𐑩𐑯 𐑸𐑥 𐑯 𐑩 𐑤𐑧𐑜!—𐑩𐑯 𐑸𐑥 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑖𐑮𐑦𐑙𐑒, 𐑛'𐑘𐑰 𐑕𐑰; 𐑯 𐑩 𐑤𐑧𐑜 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑮𐑳𐑯. 𐑢𐑺 𐑛𐑲𐑛'𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑬 𐑕𐑰 𐑞 ·𐑢𐑲𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤?—𐑣𐑬 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑩𐑜𐑴?”</p>
    <p>“𐑞 ·𐑢𐑲𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑞 ·𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑤𐑦𐑖𐑥𐑩𐑯, 𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑲𐑝𐑼𐑦 𐑸𐑥 𐑑𐑩𐑢𐑹𐑛𐑟 𐑞 ·𐑰𐑕𐑑, 𐑯 𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑮𐑵𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑲𐑑 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑦𐑑, 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑓 𐑦𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑩 𐑑𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑴𐑐; “𐑞𐑺 𐑲 𐑕𐑷 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑤𐑲𐑯, 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑟𐑩𐑯.”</p>
    <p>“𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑑𐑫𐑒 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑸𐑥 𐑪𐑓, 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑣𐑰?” 𐑭𐑕𐑒𐑑 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚, 𐑯𐑬 𐑕𐑤𐑲𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯, 𐑯 𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑤𐑦𐑖𐑥𐑩𐑯'𐑟 𐑖𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑼, 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑕𐑴.</p>
    <p>“𐑲, 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑒𐑷𐑟 𐑝 𐑦𐑑, 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑰𐑕𐑑; 𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑧𐑜, 𐑑𐑵?”</p>
    <p>“𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑰 𐑞 𐑘𐑸𐑯,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚; “𐑣𐑬 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑦𐑑?”</p>
    <p>“𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑲 𐑤𐑲𐑓 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑲 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑟𐑛 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑤𐑲𐑯,” 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑨𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑤𐑦𐑖𐑥𐑩𐑯. “𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑢𐑲𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑑𐑲𐑥. 𐑢𐑧𐑤, 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑛𐑱 𐑢𐑰 𐑤𐑴𐑼𐑛 𐑓 𐑩 𐑐𐑪𐑛 𐑝 𐑓𐑹 𐑹 𐑓𐑲𐑝 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟, 𐑯 𐑥𐑲 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞𐑧𐑥; 𐑩 𐑮𐑧𐑜𐑿𐑤𐑼 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑕 𐑣𐑹𐑕 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟, 𐑑𐑵, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑥𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑯 𐑥𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑕𐑴, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑲 𐑚𐑴𐑑'𐑕 𐑒𐑮𐑵 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑥 𐑛𐑦𐑖, 𐑚𐑲 𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑺 𐑕𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑟 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑬𐑑𐑼 𐑜𐑳𐑯𐑩𐑤. 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑳𐑐 𐑚𐑮𐑰𐑗𐑩𐑟 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑚𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑥 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑰 𐑩 𐑚𐑬𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑥𐑦𐑤𐑒𐑦-𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑯 𐑣𐑳𐑥𐑐, 𐑷𐑤 𐑒𐑮𐑴𐑟' 𐑓𐑰𐑑 𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑟.”</p>
    <p>“𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑣𐑰, 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑣𐑰!” 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚, 𐑕𐑳𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑧𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑩𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑮𐑧𐑔.</p>
    <p>“𐑯 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑯𐑽 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑼𐑛 𐑓𐑦𐑯.”</p>
    <p>“𐑲, 𐑲—𐑞𐑱 𐑢𐑻 𐑥𐑲𐑯—<i>𐑥𐑲</i> 𐑲𐑼𐑯𐑟,” 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚, 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑳𐑤𐑑𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦—“𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑪𐑯!”</p>
    <p>“𐑜𐑦𐑝 𐑥𐑰 𐑩 𐑗𐑭𐑯𐑕, 𐑞𐑧𐑯,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑞 ·𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑤𐑦𐑖𐑥𐑩𐑯, 𐑜𐑫𐑛-𐑣𐑿𐑥𐑼𐑩𐑛𐑤𐑦. “𐑢𐑧𐑤, 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑-𐑜𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑓𐑭𐑞𐑼, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑯 𐑣𐑳𐑥𐑐, 𐑮𐑳𐑯𐑟 𐑷𐑤 𐑱𐑓𐑴𐑥 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑐𐑪𐑛, 𐑯 𐑜𐑴𐑟 𐑑 𐑕𐑯𐑨𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑾𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑲 𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑑-𐑤𐑲𐑯!</p>
    <p>“𐑲, 𐑲 𐑕𐑰!—𐑢𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑑 𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑦𐑑; 𐑓𐑮𐑰 𐑞 𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑑-𐑓𐑦𐑖—𐑩𐑯 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑒—𐑲 𐑯𐑴 𐑣𐑦𐑥.”</p>
    <p>“𐑣𐑬 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑤𐑦,” 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑿𐑛 𐑞 𐑢𐑳𐑯-𐑸𐑥𐑛 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑛𐑼, “𐑲 𐑛𐑵 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑯𐑴; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑚𐑲𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑤𐑲𐑯, 𐑦𐑑 𐑜𐑪𐑑 𐑓𐑬𐑤 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑰𐑔, 𐑒𐑷𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑣𐑬; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑰 𐑛𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑯𐑴 𐑦𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑯; 𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑢𐑰 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼𐑢𐑼𐑛𐑟 𐑐𐑫𐑤𐑛 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑤𐑲𐑯, 𐑚𐑬𐑯𐑕 𐑢𐑰 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑐𐑤𐑳𐑥𐑐 𐑪𐑯 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑳𐑥𐑐! 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑢𐑱𐑤'𐑟; 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑪𐑓 𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑢𐑼𐑛, 𐑷𐑤 𐑓𐑤𐑵𐑒𐑦𐑙. 𐑕𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑬 𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑫𐑛, 𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑩 𐑯𐑴𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟—𐑞 𐑯𐑴𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑲 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑕𐑷, 𐑕𐑻, 𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑲 𐑤𐑲𐑓—𐑲 𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑪𐑤𐑝𐑛 𐑑 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑗𐑼 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑕𐑐𐑲𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑶𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑮𐑱𐑡 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑦𐑯. 𐑯 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑣𐑨𐑐-𐑣𐑨𐑟𐑼𐑛 𐑤𐑲𐑯 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑜𐑧𐑑 𐑤𐑵𐑕, 𐑹 𐑞 𐑑𐑵𐑔 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑑𐑨𐑙𐑜𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑑 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑛𐑮𐑷 (𐑓 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑩 𐑛𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑩 𐑚𐑴𐑑'𐑕 𐑒𐑮𐑵 𐑓 𐑩 𐑐𐑫𐑤 𐑪𐑯 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑤𐑲𐑯); 𐑕𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑦𐑕, 𐑲 𐑕𐑱, 𐑲 𐑡𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑥𐑲 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑱𐑑'𐑕 𐑚𐑴𐑑—·𐑥𐑼 ·𐑥𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑑𐑪𐑐'𐑕 𐑣𐑽 (𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑢𐑱, ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯—·𐑥𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑑𐑪𐑐; ·𐑥𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑑𐑪𐑐—𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯);—𐑨𐑟 𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑱𐑦𐑙, 𐑲 𐑡𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 ·𐑥𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑑𐑪𐑐'𐑕 𐑚𐑴𐑑, 𐑢𐑦𐑗, 𐑛'𐑘𐑰 𐑕𐑰, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑜𐑳𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑯 𐑜𐑳𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑥𐑲𐑯, 𐑞𐑧𐑯; 𐑯 𐑕𐑯𐑨𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯, 𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑-𐑜𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑓𐑭𐑞𐑼 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑦𐑑. 𐑚𐑳𐑑, ·𐑤𐑹𐑛, 𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑿, 𐑕𐑻—𐑣𐑸𐑑𐑕 𐑯 𐑕𐑴𐑤𐑟 𐑩𐑤𐑲𐑝, 𐑥𐑨𐑯—𐑞 𐑯𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑, 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑡𐑦𐑓, 𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑚𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑚𐑨𐑑—𐑚𐑴𐑔 𐑲𐑟 𐑬𐑑—𐑷𐑤 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑪𐑜𐑛 𐑯 ·𐑚𐑰𐑛𐑦𐑱𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒 𐑓𐑴𐑥—𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤'𐑟 𐑑𐑱𐑤 𐑤𐑵𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑳𐑐 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑦𐑑, 𐑐𐑻𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑺, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑥𐑸𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑐𐑩𐑤. 𐑯𐑴 𐑿𐑕 𐑕𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑷𐑤, 𐑞𐑧𐑯; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑜𐑮𐑴𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑛𐑱, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑚𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑳𐑯, 𐑷𐑤 𐑒𐑮𐑬𐑯-𐑡𐑵𐑩𐑤𐑟; 𐑨𐑟 𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑜𐑮𐑴𐑐𐑦𐑙, 𐑲 𐑕𐑱, 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑞 𐑕𐑧𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑲𐑼𐑯, 𐑑 𐑑𐑪𐑕 𐑦𐑑 𐑴𐑝𐑼𐑚𐑹𐑛—𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑟 𐑞 𐑑𐑱𐑤 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 ·𐑤𐑰𐑥𐑩 𐑑𐑬𐑼, 𐑒𐑳𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑲 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑑𐑵, 𐑤𐑰𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑰𐑗 𐑣𐑭𐑓 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑐𐑤𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑟; 𐑯, 𐑓𐑤𐑵𐑒𐑕 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑, 𐑞 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑣𐑳𐑥𐑐 𐑚𐑨𐑒𐑑 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑞 𐑮𐑧𐑒, 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑴 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑷𐑤 𐑗𐑦𐑐𐑕. 𐑢𐑰 𐑷𐑤 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑒 𐑬𐑑. 𐑑 𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑱𐑐 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑓𐑤𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙𐑟, 𐑲 𐑕𐑰𐑟𐑛 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑝 𐑥𐑲 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯-𐑐𐑴𐑤 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑯 𐑓 𐑩 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑒𐑤𐑳𐑙 𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑕𐑳𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑦𐑖. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 𐑒𐑴𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑰 𐑛𐑨𐑖𐑑 𐑥𐑰 𐑪𐑓, 𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑, 𐑞 𐑓𐑦𐑖, 𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑛𐑸𐑑 𐑓𐑹𐑢𐑼𐑛𐑟, 𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑓𐑤𐑨𐑖; 𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑸𐑚 𐑝 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑒𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑧𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑲𐑼𐑯 𐑑𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑯𐑽 𐑥𐑰 𐑒𐑷𐑑 𐑥𐑰 𐑣𐑽” (𐑒𐑤𐑨𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑴 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑖𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑼); “𐑘𐑧𐑕, 𐑒𐑷𐑑 𐑥𐑰 𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑽, 𐑲 𐑕𐑱, 𐑯 𐑚𐑹 𐑥𐑰 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑑 ·𐑣𐑧𐑤'𐑟 𐑓𐑤𐑱𐑥𐑟, 𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑦𐑙; 𐑢𐑧𐑯, 𐑢𐑧𐑯, 𐑷𐑤 𐑝 𐑩 𐑕𐑳𐑛𐑩𐑯, 𐑔𐑨𐑙𐑒 𐑞 𐑜𐑫𐑛 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛, 𐑞 𐑚𐑸𐑚 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑑 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑢𐑱 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑞 𐑓𐑤𐑧𐑖—𐑒𐑤𐑽 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑤𐑧𐑙𐑔 𐑝 𐑥𐑲 𐑸𐑥—𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑬𐑑 𐑯𐑲 𐑥𐑲 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑑, 𐑯 𐑳𐑐 𐑲 𐑓𐑤𐑴𐑑𐑩𐑛;—𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑑𐑧𐑤 𐑿 𐑞 𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑 (𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑢𐑱, 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯—·𐑛𐑼 ·𐑚𐑳𐑙𐑼, 𐑖𐑦𐑐'𐑕 𐑕𐑻𐑡𐑩𐑯: 𐑚𐑳𐑙𐑼, 𐑥𐑲 𐑤𐑨𐑛,—𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯). 𐑯𐑬, ·𐑚𐑳𐑙𐑼 𐑚𐑶, 𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑯 𐑘𐑹 𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑘𐑸𐑯.”</p>
    <p>𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑓𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑞𐑳𐑕 𐑓𐑩𐑥𐑦𐑤𐑽𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑬𐑑, 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑯𐑽 𐑞𐑧𐑥, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑯𐑳𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑐𐑩𐑕𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒 𐑝𐑦𐑟𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤, 𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑴𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑨𐑙𐑒 𐑪𐑯 𐑚𐑹𐑛. 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑱𐑕 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑰𐑛𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑴𐑚𐑼 𐑢𐑳𐑯; 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑛𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑓𐑱𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑤𐑵 𐑢𐑫𐑤𐑩𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑒 𐑹 𐑖𐑻𐑑, 𐑯 𐑐𐑨𐑗𐑑 𐑑𐑮𐑴𐑟𐑼𐑟; 𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑞𐑳𐑕 𐑓𐑸 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑝𐑲𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑩𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑢𐑰𐑯 𐑩 𐑯𐑸𐑤𐑦𐑣𐑕𐑐𐑲𐑒 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛, 𐑯 𐑩 𐑐𐑦𐑤-𐑚𐑪𐑒𐑕 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼, 𐑩𐑒𐑱𐑠𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑜𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑲𐑝𐑼𐑦 𐑤𐑦𐑥𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑑𐑵 𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑟. 𐑚𐑳𐑑, 𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑵𐑐𐑽𐑽'𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑛𐑳𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑑 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚, 𐑣𐑰 𐑐𐑩𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑬𐑛, 𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑢𐑱 𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑑 𐑛𐑵 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯'𐑟 𐑚𐑦𐑛𐑦𐑙.</p>
    <p>“𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑖𐑪𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑨𐑛 𐑢𐑵𐑯𐑛,” 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑨𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑕𐑻𐑡𐑩𐑯; “𐑯, 𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑲 𐑩𐑛𐑝𐑲𐑕, ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑚𐑵𐑥𐑼 𐑣𐑽, 𐑕𐑑𐑫𐑛 𐑬𐑼 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑕𐑨𐑥𐑦—”</p>
    <p>“·𐑕𐑨𐑥𐑿𐑩𐑤 ·𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑸𐑚𐑦 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑯𐑱𐑥 𐑝 𐑥𐑲 𐑖𐑦𐑐,” 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑳𐑐𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑞 𐑢𐑳𐑯-𐑸𐑥𐑛 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯, 𐑩𐑛𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑦𐑙 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚; “𐑜𐑴 𐑪𐑯, 𐑚𐑶.”</p>
    <p>“𐑕𐑑𐑫𐑛 𐑬𐑼 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑕𐑨𐑥𐑦 𐑪𐑓 𐑑 𐑞 𐑯𐑹𐑔𐑢𐑼𐑛, 𐑑 𐑜𐑧𐑑 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑤𐑱𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑪𐑑 𐑢𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑞𐑺 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑤𐑲𐑯. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑴 𐑿𐑕—𐑲 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑷𐑤 𐑲 𐑒𐑫𐑛; 𐑕𐑨𐑑 𐑳𐑐 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑯𐑲𐑑𐑕; 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑕𐑦𐑝𐑽 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑼 𐑝 𐑛𐑲𐑩𐑑—”</p>
    <p>“𐑴, 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑕𐑦𐑝𐑽!” 𐑗𐑲𐑥𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓; 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑷𐑤𐑑𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑝𐑶𐑕, “𐑛𐑮𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑪𐑑 𐑮𐑳𐑥 𐑑𐑪𐑛𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑥𐑰 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑯𐑲𐑑, 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑫𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑕𐑰 𐑑 𐑐𐑫𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑟; 𐑯 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑰 𐑑 𐑚𐑧𐑛, 𐑣𐑭𐑓 𐑕𐑰𐑟 𐑴𐑝𐑼, 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑴'𐑒𐑤𐑪𐑒 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑹𐑯𐑦𐑙. 𐑴, 𐑘𐑰 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑟! 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑨𐑑 𐑳𐑐 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑥𐑰 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑰𐑛, 𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑕𐑦𐑝𐑽 𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑲 𐑛𐑲𐑩𐑑. 𐑴! 𐑩 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑗𐑼, 𐑯 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑛𐑲𐑩𐑑𐑧𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑦𐑝𐑽, 𐑦𐑟 ·𐑛𐑼 ·𐑚𐑳𐑙𐑼. (𐑚𐑳𐑙𐑼, 𐑿 𐑛𐑪𐑜, 𐑤𐑭𐑓 𐑬𐑑! 𐑢𐑲 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑘𐑰? 𐑿 𐑯𐑴 𐑿'𐑼 𐑩 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑕 𐑡𐑪𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑭𐑕𐑒𐑩𐑤.) 𐑚𐑳𐑑, 𐑣𐑰𐑝 𐑩𐑣𐑧𐑛, 𐑚𐑶, 𐑲'𐑛 𐑮𐑭𐑞𐑼 𐑚𐑰 𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑿 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑒𐑧𐑐𐑑 𐑩𐑤𐑲𐑝 𐑚𐑲 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑥𐑨𐑯.”</p>
    <p>“𐑥𐑲 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯, 𐑿 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑺 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑰𐑝𐑛, 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑕𐑻”—𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑞 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑼𐑑𐑻𐑚𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑜𐑪𐑛𐑤𐑦-𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑦𐑙 ·𐑚𐑳𐑙𐑼, 𐑕𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑬𐑦𐑙 𐑑 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚—“𐑦𐑟 𐑨𐑐𐑑 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑓𐑩𐑕𐑰𐑖𐑩𐑕 𐑨𐑑 𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟; 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑯𐑟 𐑳𐑕 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑒𐑤𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑝 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑹𐑑. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑲 𐑥𐑱 𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑕𐑱—𐑧𐑯 𐑐𐑭𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑑, 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 ·𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑯𐑗 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑸𐑒—𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑲 𐑥𐑲𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓—𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑑 𐑕𐑱, ·𐑡𐑨𐑒 ·𐑚𐑳𐑙𐑼, 𐑤𐑱𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑮𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑒𐑤𐑻𐑡𐑦—𐑨𐑥 𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑑 𐑑𐑴𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑨𐑚𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑥𐑨𐑯; 𐑲 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑛𐑮𐑦𐑙𐑒—”</p>
    <p>“𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼!” 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯; “𐑣𐑰 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑛𐑮𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑕 𐑦𐑑; 𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑩 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑓𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥; 𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑖 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼 𐑔𐑮𐑴𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑣𐑲𐑛𐑮𐑴𐑓𐑴𐑚𐑾; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑜𐑴 𐑪𐑯—𐑜𐑴 𐑪𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑸𐑥 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑦.”</p>
    <p>“𐑘𐑧𐑕, 𐑲 𐑥𐑱 𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑧𐑤,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑞 𐑕𐑻𐑡𐑩𐑯, 𐑒𐑵𐑤𐑦. “𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑩𐑚𐑟𐑻𐑝𐑦𐑙, 𐑕𐑻, 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑚𐑵𐑥𐑼'𐑟 𐑓𐑩𐑕𐑰𐑖𐑩𐑕 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑳𐑐𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑲𐑑 𐑝 𐑥𐑲 𐑚𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑯 𐑕𐑦𐑝𐑽𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑟, 𐑞 𐑢𐑵𐑯𐑛 𐑒𐑧𐑐𐑑 𐑜𐑧𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑻𐑕 𐑯 𐑢𐑻𐑕; 𐑞 𐑑𐑮𐑵𐑔 𐑢𐑪𐑟, 𐑕𐑻, 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑨𐑟 𐑳𐑜𐑤𐑦 𐑜𐑱𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑵𐑯𐑛 𐑨𐑟 𐑕𐑻𐑡𐑩𐑯 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑕𐑷; 𐑥𐑹 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑑𐑵 𐑓𐑰𐑑 𐑯 𐑕𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑗𐑩𐑟 𐑤𐑪𐑙. 𐑲 𐑥𐑧𐑠𐑼𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑤𐑧𐑛 𐑤𐑲𐑯. 𐑦𐑯 𐑖𐑹𐑑, 𐑦𐑑 𐑜𐑮𐑵 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒; 𐑲 𐑯𐑿 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑔𐑮𐑧𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑛, 𐑯 𐑪𐑓 𐑦𐑑 𐑒𐑱𐑥. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑯𐑴 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑲𐑝𐑼𐑦 𐑸𐑥 𐑞𐑺; 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑟 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑮𐑵𐑤”—𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑯𐑸𐑤𐑦𐑣𐑕𐑐𐑲𐑒—“𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯'𐑟 𐑢𐑻𐑒, 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑥𐑲𐑯; 𐑣𐑰 𐑹𐑛𐑼𐑛 𐑞 𐑒𐑸𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑼 𐑑 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑦𐑑; 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑒𐑤𐑳𐑚-𐑣𐑨𐑥𐑼 𐑞𐑺 𐑐𐑫𐑑 𐑑 𐑞 𐑧𐑯𐑛, 𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑒 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑢𐑳𐑯'𐑟 𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑟 𐑬𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞, 𐑲 𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑴𐑟, 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑛 𐑥𐑲𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕. 𐑣𐑰 𐑓𐑤𐑲𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑛𐑲𐑩𐑚𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑐𐑭𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟. 𐑛𐑵 𐑘𐑰 𐑕𐑰 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑛𐑧𐑯𐑑, 𐑕𐑻”—𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑵𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑑, 𐑯 𐑚𐑮𐑳𐑖𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑺, 𐑯 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑴𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑚𐑴𐑤-𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑒𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑒𐑳𐑤, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑚𐑹 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑒𐑸𐑦 𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑕, 𐑹 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑑𐑴𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑣𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑩 𐑢𐑵𐑯𐑛—“𐑢𐑧𐑤, 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑑𐑧𐑤 𐑿 𐑣𐑬 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑣𐑽; 𐑣𐑰 𐑯𐑴𐑟.”</p>
    <p>“𐑯𐑴, 𐑲 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯, “𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑛𐑦𐑛; 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑚𐑹𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑦𐑑. 𐑴, 𐑿 𐑕𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑥 𐑮𐑴𐑜, 𐑿—𐑿 ·𐑚𐑳𐑙𐑼! 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞𐑺 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩𐑯𐑳𐑞𐑼 ·𐑚𐑳𐑙𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛? 𐑚𐑳𐑙𐑼, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑿 𐑛𐑲, 𐑿 𐑷𐑑 𐑑 𐑛𐑲 𐑦𐑯 𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤, 𐑿 𐑛𐑪𐑜; 𐑿 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑚𐑰 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑻𐑝𐑛 𐑑 𐑓𐑿𐑗𐑼 𐑱𐑡𐑩𐑟, 𐑿 𐑮𐑭𐑕𐑒𐑩𐑤.”</p>
    <p>“𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑢𐑲𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤?” 𐑯𐑬 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚, 𐑣𐑵 𐑞𐑳𐑕 𐑓𐑸 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑦𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑚𐑲-𐑐𐑤𐑱 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑢𐑰𐑯 𐑞 𐑑𐑵 ·𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑤𐑦𐑖𐑥𐑧𐑯.</p>
    <p>“𐑴!” 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 𐑞 𐑢𐑳𐑯-𐑸𐑥𐑛 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯, “𐑴, 𐑘𐑧𐑕! 𐑢𐑧𐑤; 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛, 𐑢𐑰 𐑛𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑕𐑰 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯 𐑓 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑑𐑲𐑥; 𐑦𐑯 𐑓𐑨𐑒𐑑, 𐑨𐑟 𐑲 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑣𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑲 𐑛𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑯𐑴 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑕𐑻𐑝𐑛 𐑥𐑰 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑒, 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼𐑢𐑼𐑛𐑟, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑨𐑒 𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑤𐑲𐑯, 𐑢𐑰 𐑣𐑻𐑛 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 ·𐑥𐑪𐑚𐑦 ·𐑛𐑦𐑒—𐑨𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑒𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑥—𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑲 𐑯𐑿 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑣𐑰.”</p>
    <p>“𐑛𐑲𐑛'𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑬 𐑒𐑮𐑪𐑕 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑱𐑒 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯?”</p>
    <p>“𐑑𐑢𐑲𐑕.”</p>
    <p>“𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑩𐑯?”</p>
    <p>“𐑛𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑯𐑑 𐑑 𐑑𐑮𐑲 𐑑: 𐑱𐑯𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑤𐑦𐑥 𐑦𐑯𐑳𐑓? 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑲 𐑛𐑵 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑸𐑥? 𐑯 𐑲'𐑥 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑦𐑙 ·𐑥𐑪𐑚𐑦 ·𐑛𐑦𐑒 𐑛𐑳𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑚𐑲𐑑 𐑕𐑴 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑢𐑪𐑤𐑴𐑟.”</p>
    <p>“𐑢𐑧𐑤, 𐑞𐑧𐑯,” 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑳𐑐𐑑𐑩𐑛 ·𐑚𐑳𐑙𐑼, “𐑜𐑦𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑘𐑹 𐑤𐑧𐑓𐑑 𐑸𐑥 𐑓 𐑚𐑱𐑑 𐑑 𐑜𐑧𐑑 𐑞 𐑮𐑲𐑑. 𐑛𐑵 𐑿 𐑯𐑴, 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯”—𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑝𐑤𐑦 𐑯 𐑥𐑨𐑔𐑩𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑬𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑰𐑗 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑩𐑒𐑕𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑯—“𐑛𐑵 𐑿 𐑯𐑴, 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑛𐑲𐑡𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑝 𐑹𐑜𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑸 𐑕𐑴 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 ·𐑛𐑦𐑝𐑲𐑯 ·𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑝𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑕, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑪𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑓 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑑 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑰𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑲𐑡𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑩 𐑥𐑨𐑯'𐑟 𐑸𐑥? 𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑯𐑴𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑑𐑵. 𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑿 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑓 𐑞 ·𐑢𐑲𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤'𐑟 𐑥𐑨𐑤𐑦𐑕 𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑷𐑒𐑢𐑼𐑛𐑯𐑩𐑕. 𐑓 𐑣𐑰 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑥𐑰𐑯𐑟 𐑑 𐑕𐑢𐑪𐑤𐑴 𐑩 𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑩𐑤 𐑤𐑦𐑥; 𐑣𐑰 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑕 𐑑 𐑑𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑓𐑲 𐑚𐑲 𐑓𐑱𐑯𐑑𐑕. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑡𐑳𐑜𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑧𐑤𐑴, 𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑼𐑤𐑦 𐑩 𐑐𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑥𐑲𐑯 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑪𐑯, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑰𐑝 𐑕𐑢𐑪𐑤𐑴 𐑡𐑨𐑒-𐑯𐑲𐑝𐑟, 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑩 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑛𐑮𐑪𐑐 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑦𐑯 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑻𐑯𐑩𐑕𐑑, 𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑛 𐑓 𐑩 𐑑𐑢𐑧𐑤𐑝𐑥𐑳𐑯𐑔 𐑹 𐑥𐑹; 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑲 𐑜𐑱𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑥𐑧𐑑𐑦𐑒, 𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑰𐑝𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑳𐑐 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤 𐑑𐑨𐑒𐑕, 𐑛'𐑘𐑰 𐑕𐑰. 𐑯𐑴 𐑐𐑪𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑱 𐑓 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑑 𐑛𐑲𐑡𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑡𐑨𐑒-𐑯𐑲𐑓, 𐑯 𐑓𐑫𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑹𐑐𐑼𐑱𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑥. 𐑘𐑧𐑕, ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑚𐑵𐑥𐑼, 𐑦𐑓 𐑿 𐑸 𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑒 𐑦𐑯𐑳𐑓 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑦𐑑, 𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑩 𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑐𐑷𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑸𐑥 𐑓 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑒 𐑝 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑡 𐑝 𐑜𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑛𐑰𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑚𐑧𐑮𐑾𐑤 𐑑 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼, 𐑢𐑲 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑒𐑱𐑕 𐑞 𐑸𐑥 𐑦𐑟 𐑘𐑹𐑟; 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑩𐑯𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑗𐑭𐑯𐑕 𐑨𐑑 𐑿 𐑖𐑹𐑑𐑤𐑦, 𐑞𐑨𐑑'𐑕 𐑷𐑤.”</p>
    <p>“𐑯𐑴, 𐑔𐑨𐑙𐑒 𐑘𐑰, ·𐑚𐑳𐑙𐑼,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑞 ·𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑤𐑦𐑖 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯, “𐑣𐑰'𐑟 𐑢𐑧𐑤𐑒𐑩𐑥 𐑑 𐑞 𐑸𐑥 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑟, 𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑕 𐑲 𐑒𐑭𐑯𐑑 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑐 𐑦𐑑, 𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑯𐑴 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑞𐑧𐑯; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑑 𐑩𐑯𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑢𐑳𐑯. 𐑯𐑴 𐑥𐑹 ·𐑢𐑲𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑓 𐑥𐑰; 𐑲'𐑝 𐑤𐑴𐑼𐑛 𐑓 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕, 𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑕𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑕𐑓𐑲𐑛 𐑥𐑰. 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑚𐑰 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑜𐑤𐑹𐑦 𐑦𐑯 𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑲 𐑯𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑; 𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑦𐑟 𐑩 𐑖𐑦𐑐-𐑤𐑴𐑛 𐑝 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑕 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑚𐑳𐑑, 𐑣𐑸𐑒 𐑘𐑰, 𐑣𐑰'𐑟 𐑚𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑩𐑤𐑴𐑯; 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑿 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑕𐑴, ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯?”—𐑜𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑲𐑝𐑼𐑦 𐑤𐑧𐑜.</p>
    <p>“𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑟. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑚𐑰 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑓 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑨𐑑. 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑩𐑤𐑴𐑯, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑩𐑒𐑻𐑕𐑩𐑛 𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑷𐑤𐑢𐑱𐑟 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑤𐑰𐑕𐑑 𐑩𐑤𐑫𐑼𐑟. 𐑣𐑰'𐑟 𐑷𐑤 𐑩 𐑥𐑨𐑜𐑯𐑩𐑑! 𐑣𐑬 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑕 𐑞𐑬 𐑕𐑷'𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑? 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑢𐑱 𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑦𐑙?”</p>
    <p>“𐑚𐑤𐑧𐑕 𐑥𐑲 𐑕𐑴𐑤, 𐑯 𐑒𐑻𐑕 𐑞 𐑓𐑬𐑤 𐑓𐑰𐑯𐑛'𐑟,” 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 ·𐑚𐑳𐑙𐑼, 𐑕𐑑𐑵𐑐𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑷𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚, 𐑯 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑛𐑪𐑜, 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑯𐑳𐑓𐑦𐑙; “𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑥𐑨𐑯'𐑟 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑛—𐑚𐑮𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑔𐑼𐑥𐑪𐑥𐑦𐑑𐑼!—𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑶𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑!—𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑳𐑤𐑕 𐑥𐑱𐑒𐑕 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑐𐑤𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑕 𐑚𐑰𐑑!—𐑕𐑻!”—𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑪𐑒𐑩𐑑, 𐑯 𐑛𐑮𐑷𐑦𐑙 𐑯𐑽 𐑑 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚'𐑟 𐑸𐑥.</p>
    <p>“𐑩𐑝𐑭𐑕𐑑!” 𐑮𐑹𐑛 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚, 𐑛𐑨𐑖𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑫𐑤𐑢𐑼𐑒𐑕—“𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑! 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑢𐑱 𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑦𐑙?”</p>
    <p>“𐑜𐑫𐑛 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛!” 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 𐑞 ·𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑤𐑦𐑖 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯, 𐑑 𐑣𐑵𐑥 𐑞 𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑕𐑗𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑐𐑫𐑑. “𐑢𐑪𐑑'𐑕 𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑼? 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑰𐑕𐑑, 𐑲 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒.—𐑦𐑟 𐑘𐑹 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 𐑒𐑮𐑱𐑟𐑦?” 𐑢𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑼𐑦𐑙 ·𐑓𐑧𐑛𐑩𐑤𐑩.</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑳𐑑 ·𐑓𐑧𐑛𐑩𐑤𐑩, 𐑐𐑫𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑓𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑼 𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑦𐑐, 𐑕𐑤𐑦𐑛 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 𐑚𐑫𐑤𐑢𐑼𐑒𐑕 𐑑 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑'𐑕 𐑕𐑑𐑽𐑦𐑙 𐑹, 𐑯 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚, 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑙𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑒𐑳𐑑𐑦𐑙-𐑑𐑨𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑑𐑩𐑢𐑹𐑛𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐'𐑕 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼𐑟 𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑑 𐑤𐑴𐑼.</p>
    <p>𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑'𐑕 𐑕𐑑𐑻𐑯, 𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑤𐑩 𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑢𐑻 𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑙𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑹𐑟. 𐑦𐑯 𐑝𐑱𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑤𐑦𐑖 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑱𐑤𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥. 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑚𐑨𐑒 𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑼 𐑖𐑦𐑐, 𐑯 𐑓𐑱𐑕 𐑕𐑧𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑓𐑤𐑦𐑯𐑑 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯, ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑕𐑑𐑫𐑛 𐑳𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑑 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛.</p>
  </body>
</html>
