<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Chapter 48</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="chapter-48" xml:lang="en-US">
      <h2 id="chapterheader-48">·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 48. 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 ·𐑤𐑴𐑼𐑦𐑙.</h2>
    </div>
    <p>𐑞 𐑓𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑥𐑟, 𐑓 𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑱 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛, 𐑢𐑻 𐑓𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑒, 𐑯, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑯𐑶𐑟𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑦, 𐑢𐑻 𐑒𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑵𐑕 𐑞 𐑑𐑨𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑯 𐑚𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑕𐑢𐑳𐑙 𐑞𐑺. 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑷𐑤𐑢𐑱𐑟 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑛𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑐𐑺 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕, 𐑞𐑴 𐑑𐑧𐑒𐑯𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯'𐑟, 𐑪𐑯 𐑩𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑣𐑨𐑙𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑼𐑛 𐑒𐑢𐑹𐑑𐑼. 𐑞 𐑓𐑦𐑜𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑯𐑬 𐑕𐑑𐑫𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑚𐑬𐑟 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑑𐑷𐑤 𐑯 𐑕𐑢𐑸𐑑, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑑𐑵𐑔 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑑𐑮𐑵𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤-𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑤𐑦𐑐𐑕. 𐑩 𐑮𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑤𐑛 ·𐑗𐑲𐑯𐑰𐑟 𐑡𐑨𐑒𐑩𐑑 𐑝 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒 𐑒𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑓𐑿𐑯𐑽𐑾𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑢𐑲𐑛 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒 𐑑𐑮𐑴𐑟𐑼𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑛𐑸𐑒 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑓. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑦𐑚𐑪𐑯𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑜𐑤𐑦𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑐𐑤𐑨𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑑𐑻𐑚𐑩𐑯, 𐑞 𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑺 𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑯 𐑒𐑶𐑤𐑛 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑯 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑧𐑛. 𐑤𐑧𐑕 𐑕𐑢𐑸𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑨𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑑, 𐑞 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑨𐑯𐑘𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑓𐑦𐑜𐑼 𐑢𐑻 𐑝 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑝𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑛, 𐑑𐑲𐑜𐑼-𐑘𐑧𐑤𐑴 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑧𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑽 𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑝 𐑞 𐑨𐑚𐑼𐑦𐑡𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑯𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑝𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑤𐑩𐑟;—𐑩 𐑮𐑱𐑕 𐑯𐑴𐑑𐑹𐑾𐑕 𐑓 𐑩 𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑛𐑲𐑩𐑚𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑟𐑩𐑥 𐑝 𐑕𐑳𐑚𐑑𐑦𐑤𐑑𐑦, 𐑯 𐑚𐑲 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑪𐑯𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑯𐑼𐑟 𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑞 𐑐𐑱𐑛 𐑕𐑐𐑲𐑟 𐑯 𐑕𐑰𐑒𐑮𐑩𐑑 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑓𐑦𐑛𐑧𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑤 𐑱𐑡𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼 𐑝 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤, 𐑞𐑺 𐑤𐑹𐑛, 𐑣𐑵𐑟 𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑙-𐑮𐑵𐑥 𐑞𐑱 𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑴𐑟 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑧𐑤𐑕𐑢𐑺.</p>
    <p>𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑖𐑦𐑐'𐑕 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑦 𐑢𐑻 𐑜𐑱𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑼𐑟, ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 𐑬𐑑 𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑲𐑑-𐑑𐑻𐑚𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑣𐑧𐑛, “𐑷𐑤 𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑦 𐑞𐑺, ·𐑓𐑧𐑛𐑩𐑤𐑩?”</p>
    <p>“𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑦,” 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑣𐑭𐑓-𐑣𐑦𐑕𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑤𐑲.</p>
    <p>“𐑤𐑴𐑼 𐑩𐑢𐑱 𐑞𐑧𐑯; 𐑛'𐑘𐑰 𐑣𐑽?” 𐑖𐑬𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑒𐑮𐑪𐑕 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑒. “𐑤𐑴𐑼 𐑩𐑢𐑱 𐑞𐑺, 𐑲 𐑕𐑱.”</p>
    <p>𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑔𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑝𐑶𐑕, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑲𐑑 𐑝 𐑞𐑺 𐑩𐑥𐑱𐑟𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑞 𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑨𐑙 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 𐑮𐑱𐑤; 𐑞 𐑖𐑰𐑝𐑟 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑤𐑪𐑒𐑕; 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑢𐑪𐑤𐑴, 𐑞 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕 𐑛𐑮𐑪𐑐𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑕𐑰; 𐑢𐑲𐑤, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑛𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑩𐑕, 𐑪𐑓-𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑛𐑺𐑦𐑙, 𐑳𐑯𐑯𐑴𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑝𐑴𐑒𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼𐑟, 𐑜𐑴𐑑-𐑤𐑲𐑒, 𐑤𐑰𐑐𐑑 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑞 𐑮𐑴𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑖𐑦𐑐'𐑕 𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑑𐑪𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑴.</p>
    <p>𐑣𐑸𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑞𐑱 𐑐𐑫𐑤𐑛 𐑬𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐'𐑕 𐑤𐑰, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑩 𐑓𐑹𐑔 𐑒𐑰𐑤, 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑢𐑼𐑛 𐑕𐑲𐑛, 𐑐𐑫𐑤𐑛 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑻𐑯, 𐑯 𐑖𐑴𐑛 𐑞 𐑓𐑲𐑝 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑼𐑟 𐑮𐑴𐑦𐑙 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚, 𐑣𐑵, 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑻𐑯, 𐑤𐑬𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑱𐑤𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒, ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚, 𐑯 ·𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒, 𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑛 𐑞𐑧𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑝𐑟 𐑢𐑲𐑛𐑤𐑦, 𐑕𐑴 𐑨𐑟 𐑑 𐑒𐑳𐑝𐑼 𐑩 𐑤𐑸𐑡 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑨𐑯𐑕 𐑝 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑺 𐑲𐑟 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑩𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑢𐑸𐑑 ·𐑓𐑧𐑛𐑩𐑤𐑩 𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑮𐑵, 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑥𐑱𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕 𐑴𐑚𐑱𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑞 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑛.</p>
    <p>“𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚?—” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒.</p>
    <p>“𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑛 𐑘𐑹𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑝𐑟,” 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚; “𐑜𐑦𐑝 𐑢𐑱, 𐑷𐑤 𐑓𐑹 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕. 𐑞𐑬, ·𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒, 𐑐𐑫𐑤 𐑬𐑑 𐑥𐑹 𐑑 𐑤𐑰𐑢𐑼𐑛!”</p>
    <p>“𐑲, 𐑲, 𐑕𐑻,” 𐑗𐑽𐑦𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 ·𐑒𐑦𐑙-·𐑐𐑴𐑕𐑑, 𐑕𐑢𐑰𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑽𐑦𐑙 𐑹. “𐑤𐑱 𐑚𐑨𐑒!” 𐑩𐑛𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑮𐑵. “𐑞𐑺!—𐑞𐑺!—𐑞𐑺 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯! 𐑞𐑺 𐑖𐑰 𐑚𐑤𐑴𐑟 𐑮𐑲𐑑 𐑩𐑣𐑧𐑛, 𐑚𐑶𐑟!—𐑤𐑱 𐑚𐑨𐑒!”</p>
    <p>“𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑣𐑰𐑛 𐑘𐑪𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑘𐑧𐑤𐑴 𐑚𐑶𐑟, ·𐑸𐑒𐑦.”</p>
    <p>“𐑴, 𐑲 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛 '𐑩𐑥, 𐑕𐑻,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 ·𐑸𐑒𐑦; “𐑲 𐑯𐑿 𐑦𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑯𐑬. 𐑛𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑲 𐑣𐑽 '𐑩𐑥 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛? 𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑲 𐑑𐑧𐑤 ·𐑒𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑒𐑴 𐑣𐑽 𐑝 𐑦𐑑? 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑱 𐑘𐑰, ·𐑒𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑒𐑴? 𐑞𐑱 𐑸 𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑩𐑢𐑱𐑟, ·𐑥𐑼 ·𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒.”</p>
    <p>“𐑐𐑫𐑤, 𐑐𐑫𐑤, 𐑥𐑲 𐑓𐑲𐑯 𐑣𐑸𐑑𐑕-𐑩𐑤𐑲𐑝; 𐑐𐑫𐑤, 𐑥𐑲 𐑗𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑯; 𐑐𐑫𐑤, 𐑥𐑲 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑟,” 𐑛𐑮𐑷𐑤𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑯 𐑕𐑵𐑞𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑲𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑮𐑵, 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑝 𐑣𐑵𐑥 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑖𐑴𐑛 𐑕𐑲𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑳𐑯𐑰𐑟𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑕. “𐑢𐑲 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑿 𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑒 𐑘𐑹 𐑚𐑨𐑒𐑚𐑴𐑯𐑟, 𐑥𐑲 𐑚𐑶𐑟? 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑿 𐑕𐑑𐑺 𐑨𐑑? 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑘𐑪𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑚𐑴𐑑? 𐑑𐑳𐑑! 𐑞𐑱 𐑸 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑲𐑝 𐑥𐑹 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑑 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑐 𐑳𐑕—𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑢𐑺—𐑞 𐑥𐑹 𐑞 𐑥𐑧𐑮𐑽. 𐑐𐑫𐑤, 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑛𐑵 𐑐𐑫𐑤; 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑚𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑯—𐑛𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑸 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑓𐑧𐑤𐑴𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑳𐑓. 𐑕𐑴, 𐑕𐑴; 𐑞𐑺 𐑿 𐑸 𐑯𐑬; 𐑞𐑨𐑑'𐑕 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑴𐑒 𐑓 𐑩 𐑔𐑬𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑐𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑟; 𐑞𐑨𐑑'𐑕 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑴𐑒 𐑑 𐑕𐑢𐑰𐑐 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑕! 𐑣𐑼𐑭 𐑓 𐑞 𐑜𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑒𐑳𐑐 𐑝 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 𐑶𐑤, 𐑥𐑲 𐑣𐑽𐑴𐑟! 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑗𐑽𐑟, 𐑥𐑧𐑯—𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑸𐑑𐑕 𐑩𐑤𐑲𐑝! 𐑰𐑟𐑦, 𐑰𐑟𐑦; 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑣𐑳𐑮𐑦—𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑣𐑳𐑮𐑦. 𐑢𐑲 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑿 𐑕𐑯𐑨𐑐 𐑘𐑹 𐑹𐑟, 𐑿 𐑮𐑭𐑕𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑟? 𐑚𐑲𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑔𐑦𐑙, 𐑿 𐑛𐑪𐑜𐑟! 𐑕𐑴, 𐑕𐑴, 𐑕𐑴, 𐑞𐑧𐑯:—𐑕𐑪𐑓𐑑𐑤𐑦, 𐑕𐑪𐑓𐑑𐑤𐑦! 𐑞𐑨𐑑'𐑕 𐑦𐑑—𐑞𐑨𐑑'𐑕 𐑦𐑑! 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑪𐑙. 𐑜𐑦𐑝 𐑢𐑱 𐑞𐑺, 𐑜𐑦𐑝 𐑢𐑱! 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤 𐑓𐑧𐑗 𐑘𐑰, 𐑘𐑰 𐑮𐑨𐑜𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑓𐑦𐑯 𐑮𐑨𐑐𐑕𐑒𐑨𐑤𐑾𐑯𐑟; 𐑘𐑰 𐑸 𐑷𐑤 𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐. 𐑕𐑑𐑪𐑐 𐑕𐑯𐑹𐑦𐑙, 𐑘𐑰 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐𐑼𐑟, 𐑯 𐑐𐑫𐑤. 𐑐𐑫𐑤, 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑘𐑰? 𐑐𐑫𐑤, 𐑒𐑭𐑯𐑑 𐑘𐑰? 𐑐𐑫𐑤, 𐑢𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑘𐑰? 𐑢𐑲 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑯𐑱𐑥 𐑝 𐑜𐑳𐑡𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑯 𐑡𐑦𐑯𐑡𐑼-𐑒𐑱𐑒𐑕 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑘𐑰 𐑐𐑫𐑤?—𐑐𐑫𐑤 𐑯 𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑒 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑔𐑦𐑙! 𐑐𐑫𐑤, 𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑑 𐑘𐑹 𐑲𐑟 𐑬𐑑! 𐑣𐑽!” 𐑢𐑦𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑑 𐑞 𐑖𐑸𐑐 𐑯𐑲𐑓 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑜𐑻𐑛𐑩𐑤; “𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑥𐑳𐑞𐑼'𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑘𐑰 𐑛𐑮𐑷 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑲𐑓, 𐑯 𐑐𐑫𐑤 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑚𐑤𐑱𐑛 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑢𐑰𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑰𐑔. 𐑞𐑨𐑑'𐑕 𐑦𐑑—𐑞𐑨𐑑'𐑕 𐑦𐑑. 𐑯𐑬 𐑘𐑰 𐑛𐑵 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑔𐑦𐑙; 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑕 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑦𐑑, 𐑥𐑲 𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤-𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑕. 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑑 𐑣𐑻—𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑑 𐑣𐑻, 𐑥𐑲 𐑕𐑦𐑤𐑝𐑼-𐑕𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑟! 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑑 𐑣𐑻, 𐑥𐑸𐑤𐑦𐑙-𐑕𐑐𐑲𐑒𐑕!”</p>
    <p>𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚'𐑟 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑹𐑛𐑾𐑥 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑮𐑵 𐑦𐑟 𐑜𐑦𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑽 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑸𐑡, 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑪𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑮𐑭𐑞𐑼 𐑩 𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑽 𐑢𐑱 𐑝 𐑑𐑷𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑦𐑯 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑤, 𐑯 𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑳𐑤𐑒𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑮𐑴𐑦𐑙. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑿 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑴𐑟 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑻𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑲𐑟𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑓𐑤𐑵 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑛𐑬𐑯𐑮𐑲𐑑 𐑐𐑭𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑪𐑙𐑜𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯. 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤; 𐑯 𐑞𐑺𐑦𐑯 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑗𐑰𐑓 𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑦𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑦. 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑕𐑱 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑑𐑼𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑮𐑵, 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑑𐑴𐑯 𐑕𐑴 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑝 𐑓𐑳𐑯 𐑯 𐑓𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑦, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑦 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑕𐑴 𐑒𐑨𐑤𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑥𐑽𐑤𐑦 𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑕𐑐𐑲𐑕 𐑑 𐑞 𐑓𐑳𐑯, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑯𐑴 𐑹𐑟𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑣𐑽 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑒𐑢𐑽 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑩𐑒𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑 𐑐𐑫𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑓 𐑛𐑽 𐑤𐑲𐑓, 𐑯 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑐𐑫𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑓 𐑞 𐑥𐑽 𐑡𐑴𐑒 𐑝 𐑞 𐑔𐑦𐑙. 𐑚𐑦𐑕𐑲𐑛𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑑 𐑕𐑴 𐑰𐑟𐑦 𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓, 𐑕𐑴 𐑤𐑬𐑯𐑡𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑡𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑽𐑦𐑙-𐑹, 𐑯 𐑕𐑴 𐑚𐑮𐑷𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑜𐑱𐑐𐑑—𐑴𐑐𐑩𐑯-𐑥𐑬𐑞𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟—𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑥𐑽 𐑕𐑲𐑑 𐑝 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑘𐑷𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑛𐑼, 𐑚𐑲 𐑖𐑽 𐑓𐑹𐑕 𐑝 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑭𐑕𐑑, 𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑗𐑸𐑥 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑵. 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯, ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑪𐑛 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑿𐑥𐑼𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑕, 𐑣𐑵𐑟 𐑡𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑕𐑴 𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑾𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑨𐑥𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑿𐑩𐑕, 𐑨𐑟 𐑑 𐑐𐑫𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑽𐑽𐑟 𐑪𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑜𐑸𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑼 𐑝 𐑴𐑚𐑱𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑧𐑥.</p>
    <p>𐑦𐑯 𐑴𐑚𐑰𐑛𐑾𐑯𐑕 𐑑 𐑩 𐑕𐑲𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚, ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑬 𐑐𐑫𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑴𐑚𐑤𐑰𐑒𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑒𐑮𐑪𐑕 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚'𐑟 𐑚𐑬; 𐑯 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑓 𐑩 𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑑 𐑹 𐑕𐑴 𐑞 𐑑𐑵 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕 𐑢𐑻 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑯𐑽 𐑑 𐑰𐑗 𐑳𐑞𐑼, ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚 𐑣𐑱𐑤𐑛 𐑞 𐑥𐑱𐑑.</p>
    <p>“·𐑥𐑼 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒! 𐑤𐑸𐑚𐑼𐑛 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑞𐑺, 𐑩𐑣𐑶! 𐑩 𐑢𐑻𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑘𐑰, 𐑕𐑻, 𐑦𐑓 𐑘𐑰 𐑐𐑤𐑰𐑟!”</p>
    <p>“𐑣𐑩𐑤𐑴!” 𐑮𐑩𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒, 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑩 𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑗 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑐𐑴𐑒; 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑻𐑯𐑩𐑕𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑼𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑻𐑡𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑮𐑵; 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑱𐑕 𐑕𐑧𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑓𐑤𐑦𐑯𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚'𐑟.</p>
    <p>“𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑘𐑰 𐑝 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑘𐑧𐑤𐑴 𐑚𐑶𐑟, 𐑕𐑻!”</p>
    <p>“𐑕𐑥𐑳𐑜𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑪𐑯 𐑚𐑹𐑛, 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑣𐑬, 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑛. (𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑪𐑙, 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑪𐑙, 𐑚𐑶𐑟!)” 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑢𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑼 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑮𐑵, 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑑 𐑤𐑬𐑛 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯: “𐑩 𐑕𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑦𐑟𐑯𐑩𐑕, ·𐑥𐑼 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚! (𐑕𐑰𐑞 𐑣𐑻, 𐑕𐑰𐑞 𐑣𐑻, 𐑥𐑲 𐑤𐑨𐑛𐑟!) 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛, ·𐑥𐑼 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚, 𐑷𐑤 𐑓 𐑞 𐑚𐑧𐑕𐑑. 𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑘𐑹 𐑒𐑮𐑵 𐑐𐑫𐑤 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑪𐑙, 𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑤. (𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑙, 𐑥𐑲 𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑙!) 𐑞𐑺'𐑟 𐑣𐑪𐑜𐑟𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑟 𐑝 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 𐑩𐑣𐑧𐑛, ·𐑥𐑼 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚, 𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑'𐑕 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑘𐑰 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑓. (𐑐𐑫𐑤, 𐑥𐑲 𐑚𐑶𐑟!) 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥, 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥'𐑟 𐑞 𐑐𐑤𐑱! 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑰𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑿𐑑𐑦; 𐑛𐑿𐑑𐑦 𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑓𐑦𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛.”</p>
    <p>“𐑲, 𐑲, 𐑲 𐑔𐑷𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑥𐑳𐑗,” 𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑤𐑩𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑟𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕 𐑛𐑲𐑝𐑻𐑡𐑛, “𐑨𐑟 𐑕𐑵𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑲 𐑒𐑤𐑨𐑐𐑑 𐑲 𐑪𐑯 '𐑩𐑥, 𐑲 𐑔𐑷𐑑 𐑕𐑴. 𐑲, 𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑'𐑕 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑓, 𐑕𐑴 𐑪𐑓𐑩𐑯, 𐑨𐑟 ·𐑛𐑴-·𐑚𐑶 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑕𐑩𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛. 𐑞𐑱 𐑢𐑻 𐑣𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑞𐑺. 𐑞 ·𐑢𐑲𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤'𐑟 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑥 𐑝 𐑦𐑑. 𐑢𐑧𐑤, 𐑢𐑧𐑤, 𐑕𐑴 𐑚𐑰 𐑦𐑑! 𐑒𐑭𐑯𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑐𐑑! 𐑷𐑤 𐑮𐑲𐑑! 𐑜𐑦𐑝 𐑢𐑱, 𐑥𐑧𐑯! 𐑦𐑑 𐑱𐑯𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑢𐑲𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑑-𐑛𐑱! 𐑜𐑦𐑝 𐑢𐑱!”</p>
    <p>𐑯𐑬 𐑞 𐑨𐑛𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑬𐑑𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑖 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑼𐑟 𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑤𐑴𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑒, 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑳𐑯𐑮𐑰𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑢𐑱𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑩 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑕𐑵𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑕 𐑩𐑥𐑱𐑟𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑝 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐'𐑕 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑦; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 ·𐑸𐑒𐑦'𐑟 𐑓𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑛 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑳𐑝𐑼𐑦 𐑣𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑐𐑮𐑰𐑝𐑾𐑕 𐑜𐑪𐑑 𐑩𐑚𐑮𐑷𐑛 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑞𐑧𐑥, 𐑞𐑴 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑰𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑒𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤 𐑥𐑧𐑠𐑼 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑺𐑛 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑓 𐑞 𐑦𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑑. 𐑦𐑑 𐑑𐑫𐑒 𐑪𐑓 𐑞 𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑰𐑥 𐑧𐑡 𐑝 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼; 𐑯 𐑕𐑴 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑯 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚'𐑟 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑓𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑢𐑱 𐑝 𐑩𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑓 𐑞𐑺 𐑩𐑐𐑽𐑩𐑯𐑕, 𐑞𐑱 𐑢𐑻 𐑓 𐑞 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑓𐑮𐑰𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑕𐑵𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑕 𐑕𐑼𐑥𐑲𐑟𐑦𐑙𐑟; 𐑞𐑴 𐑞 𐑩𐑓𐑺 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑤𐑧𐑓𐑑 𐑩𐑚𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑮𐑵𐑥 𐑓 𐑷𐑤 𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑼 𐑝 𐑢𐑲𐑤𐑛 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑡𐑧𐑒𐑗𐑼𐑟 𐑨𐑟 𐑑 𐑛𐑸𐑒 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚'𐑟 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑲𐑕 𐑱𐑡𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑼 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑙. 𐑓 𐑥𐑰, 𐑲 𐑕𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛 𐑞 𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑽𐑾𐑕 𐑖𐑨𐑛𐑴𐑟 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑕𐑰𐑯 𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑯 𐑚𐑹𐑛 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛 𐑛𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑛𐑦𐑥 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑 𐑛𐑷𐑯, 𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑧𐑯𐑦𐑜𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑳𐑯𐑩𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 ·𐑦𐑤𐑲𐑡𐑩.</p>
    <p>𐑥𐑰𐑯𐑑𐑲𐑥, ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚, 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑽𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑪𐑓𐑦𐑕𐑼𐑟, 𐑣𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑲𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑞𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑢𐑼𐑛, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕; 𐑩 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑕 𐑚𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑬 𐑐𐑴𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑩 𐑒𐑮𐑵 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑐𐑫𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥. 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑑𐑲𐑜𐑼 𐑘𐑧𐑤𐑴 𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑗𐑼𐑟 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑷𐑤 𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤 𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑚𐑴𐑯; 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑓𐑲𐑝 𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑐-𐑣𐑨𐑥𐑼𐑟 𐑞𐑱 𐑮𐑴𐑟 𐑯 𐑓𐑧𐑤 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑮𐑧𐑜𐑿𐑤𐑼 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑴𐑒𐑕 𐑝 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑙𐑔, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑐𐑽𐑦𐑪𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑞 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑣𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑚𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑶𐑤𐑼 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑩 ·𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑦𐑕𐑦𐑐𐑦 𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑥𐑼. 𐑨𐑟 𐑓 ·𐑓𐑧𐑛𐑩𐑤𐑩, 𐑣𐑵 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑰𐑯 𐑐𐑫𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽 𐑹, 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑔𐑮𐑴𐑯 𐑩𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒 𐑡𐑨𐑒𐑩𐑑, 𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑱𐑒𐑩𐑛 𐑗𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦 𐑩𐑚𐑳𐑝 𐑞 𐑜𐑳𐑯𐑩𐑤, 𐑒𐑤𐑽𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑳𐑑 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑞 𐑷𐑤𐑑𐑼𐑯𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑛𐑦𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑣𐑼𐑲𐑟𐑩𐑯; 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑸𐑥, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑓𐑧𐑯𐑕𐑼'𐑟, 𐑔𐑮𐑴𐑯 𐑣𐑭𐑓 𐑚𐑨𐑒𐑢𐑼𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑺, 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑓 𐑑 𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑚𐑨𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦 𐑑 𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑐; ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑰𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑦 𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑡𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑽𐑦𐑙 𐑹 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑔𐑬𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑤𐑴𐑼𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑺 𐑞 ·𐑢𐑲𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑑𐑹𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥. 𐑷𐑤 𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕 𐑞 𐑬𐑑𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑗𐑑 𐑸𐑥 𐑜𐑱𐑝 𐑩 𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑽 𐑥𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑓𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑑, 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑'𐑕 𐑓𐑲𐑝 𐑹𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑕𐑰𐑯 𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑤𐑑𐑱𐑯𐑾𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑑. 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑯 𐑒𐑮𐑵 𐑕𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑰. 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑞 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑛 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑮𐑽 𐑐𐑷𐑟𐑛 𐑪𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑱. 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑜𐑿𐑤𐑼𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑚𐑤𐑵, 𐑞𐑳𐑕 𐑜𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑯𐑴 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑻𐑯𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑑𐑴𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑥𐑵𐑝𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑, 𐑞𐑴 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑤𐑴𐑟𐑼 𐑝𐑦𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑦 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑩𐑚𐑟𐑻𐑝𐑛 𐑦𐑑.</p>
    <p>“𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑬𐑑 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑹𐑟!” 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒. “𐑞𐑬, ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜, 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑳𐑐!”</p>
    <p>𐑯𐑦𐑥𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑙𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑐 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑨𐑙𐑜𐑿𐑤𐑼 𐑮𐑱𐑟𐑛 𐑚𐑪𐑒𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑬, 𐑞 𐑕𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑡 𐑕𐑑𐑫𐑛 𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑑 𐑞𐑺, 𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑰𐑜𐑼 𐑲𐑟 𐑜𐑱𐑟𐑛 𐑪𐑓 𐑑𐑩𐑢𐑹𐑛𐑟 𐑞 𐑕𐑐𐑪𐑑 𐑢𐑺 𐑞 𐑗𐑱𐑕 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛. 𐑤𐑲𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑟 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑰𐑥 𐑕𐑑𐑻𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑢𐑺 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑷𐑤𐑕𐑴 𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑨𐑙𐑜𐑿𐑤𐑼𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑤𐑨𐑑𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑛 𐑤𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑜𐑳𐑯𐑩𐑤, ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑰𐑯 𐑒𐑵𐑤𐑦 𐑯 𐑩𐑛𐑮𐑶𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑨𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑑 𐑞 𐑡𐑻𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑑𐑪𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑗𐑦𐑐 𐑝 𐑩 𐑒𐑮𐑭𐑓𐑑, 𐑯 𐑕𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑲𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑝𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑤𐑵 𐑲 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑰.</p>
    <p>𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑓𐑸 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑 ·𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒'𐑕 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑷𐑤𐑕𐑴 𐑤𐑲𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑮𐑧𐑔𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤; 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑑𐑪𐑐 𐑝 𐑞 𐑤𐑪𐑜𐑼𐑣𐑧𐑛, 𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑬𐑑 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑐𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑮𐑵𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑰𐑤, 𐑯 𐑮𐑲𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑑𐑵 𐑓𐑰𐑑 𐑩𐑚𐑳𐑝 𐑞 𐑤𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑻𐑯 𐑐𐑤𐑨𐑑𐑓𐑹𐑥. 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑿𐑟𐑛 𐑓 𐑒𐑨𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑤𐑲𐑯. 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑑𐑪𐑐 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑥𐑹 𐑕𐑐𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑕 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑭𐑥 𐑝 𐑩 𐑥𐑨𐑯'𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛, 𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑚𐑱𐑕 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑, ·𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑐𐑻𐑗𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑-𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑝 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑕𐑳𐑙𐑒 𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑣𐑻 𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑒𐑕. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 ·𐑒𐑦𐑙-·𐑐𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤 𐑯 𐑖𐑹𐑑, 𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 ·𐑒𐑦𐑙-·𐑐𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑓𐑫𐑤 𐑝 𐑩 𐑤𐑸𐑡 𐑯 𐑑𐑷𐑤 𐑨𐑥𐑚𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑤𐑪𐑜𐑼𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛-𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑯𐑴 𐑥𐑰𐑯𐑟 𐑕𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑕𐑓𐑲 ·𐑒𐑦𐑙-·𐑐𐑴𐑕𐑑.</p>
    <p>“𐑲 𐑒𐑭𐑯𐑑 𐑕𐑰 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑕𐑰𐑟 𐑪𐑓; 𐑑𐑦𐑐 𐑳𐑕 𐑳𐑐 𐑩𐑯 𐑹 𐑞𐑺, 𐑯 𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑥𐑰 𐑪𐑯 𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑.”</p>
    <p>𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕, ·𐑛𐑨𐑜𐑵, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑲𐑞𐑼 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑜𐑳𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑛𐑦 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑱, 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑤𐑦𐑛 𐑭𐑓𐑑, 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑝𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑽𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑪𐑓𐑑𐑦 𐑖𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑼𐑟 𐑓 𐑩 𐑐𐑧𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑤.</p>
    <p>“𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑩 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑-𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑨𐑟 𐑧𐑯𐑦, 𐑕𐑻. 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑿 𐑥𐑬𐑯𐑑?”</p>
    <p>“𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑲 𐑢𐑦𐑤, 𐑯 𐑔𐑨𐑙𐑒 𐑘𐑰 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑥𐑳𐑗, 𐑥𐑲 𐑓𐑲𐑯 𐑓𐑧𐑤𐑴; 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑲 𐑢𐑦𐑖 𐑿 𐑓𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑦 𐑓𐑰𐑑 𐑑𐑷𐑤𐑼.”</p>
    <p>𐑢𐑺𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑐𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑰𐑑 𐑓𐑻𐑥𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑑𐑵 𐑪𐑐𐑩𐑟𐑦𐑑 𐑐𐑤𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑, 𐑞 𐑡𐑲𐑜𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑯𐑰𐑜𐑮𐑴, 𐑕𐑑𐑵𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤, 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑤𐑨𐑑 𐑐𐑭𐑥 𐑑 ·𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒'𐑕 𐑓𐑫𐑑, 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑐𐑫𐑑𐑦𐑙 ·𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒'𐑕 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑻𐑕-𐑐𐑤𐑵𐑥𐑛 𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑑𐑪𐑕, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑛𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑩𐑕 𐑓𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑞 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑣𐑲 𐑯 𐑛𐑮𐑲 𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑖𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑼𐑟. 𐑯 𐑣𐑽 𐑢𐑪𐑟 ·𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒 𐑯𐑬 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙, ·𐑛𐑨𐑜𐑵 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑤𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑸𐑥 𐑓𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑖𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑚𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑚𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑤𐑰𐑯 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑛𐑦 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑚𐑲.</p>
    <p>𐑨𐑑 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡 𐑕𐑲𐑑 𐑑 𐑞 𐑑𐑲𐑮𐑴 𐑑 𐑕𐑰 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑕 𐑣𐑨𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛 𐑝 𐑳𐑯𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑕 𐑕𐑒𐑦𐑤 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑑𐑱𐑯 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑑 𐑐𐑪𐑕𐑗𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑴𐑑, 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑐𐑦𐑗𐑑 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑮𐑲𐑩𐑑𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑼𐑝𐑻𐑕 𐑯 𐑒𐑮𐑪𐑕-𐑮𐑳𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑰𐑟. 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑥𐑹 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡 𐑑 𐑕𐑰 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑜𐑦𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑻𐑗𐑑 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑤𐑪𐑜𐑼𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑦𐑑𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓, 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑲𐑑 𐑝 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 ·𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒 𐑥𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑡𐑲𐑜𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑒 ·𐑛𐑨𐑜𐑵 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑥𐑹 𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑾𐑕; 𐑓 𐑕𐑩𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑒𐑵𐑤, 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑑, 𐑰𐑟𐑦, 𐑳𐑯𐑔𐑷𐑑 𐑝, 𐑚𐑸𐑚𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑒 𐑥𐑨𐑡𐑩𐑕𐑑𐑦, 𐑞 𐑯𐑴𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑯𐑰𐑜𐑮𐑴 𐑑 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑮𐑴𐑤 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑰 𐑣𐑸𐑥𐑴𐑯𐑾𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑲𐑯 𐑓𐑹𐑥. 𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑮𐑷𐑛 𐑚𐑨𐑒, 𐑓𐑤𐑨𐑒𐑕𐑩𐑯-𐑣𐑺𐑛 ·𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑩 𐑕𐑯𐑴-𐑓𐑤𐑱𐑒. 𐑞 𐑚𐑺𐑼 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑑 𐑯𐑴𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑞 𐑮𐑲𐑛𐑼. 𐑞𐑴 𐑑𐑮𐑵𐑤𐑦 𐑝𐑦𐑝𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑕, 𐑑𐑿𐑥𐑳𐑤𐑗𐑵𐑩𐑕, 𐑪𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑕 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 ·𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑯𐑬 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑥𐑐 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑕; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑨𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑰𐑝 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑣𐑰 𐑞𐑺𐑚𐑲 𐑜𐑦𐑝 𐑑 𐑞 𐑯𐑰𐑜𐑮𐑴'𐑟 𐑤𐑹𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑗𐑧𐑕𐑑. 𐑕𐑴 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑲 𐑕𐑰𐑯 ·𐑐𐑭𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑯 ·𐑝𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑥𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑨𐑜𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑕 𐑻𐑔, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑻𐑔 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑷𐑤𐑑𐑼 𐑣𐑻 𐑑𐑲𐑛𐑟 𐑯 𐑣𐑻 𐑕𐑰𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑓 𐑞𐑨𐑑.</p>
    <p>𐑥𐑰𐑯𐑢𐑲𐑤 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚, 𐑞 𐑔𐑻𐑛 𐑥𐑱𐑑, 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑛 𐑯𐑴 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑓𐑸-𐑜𐑱𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛𐑟. 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞𐑺 𐑮𐑧𐑜𐑿𐑤𐑼 𐑕𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙𐑟, 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑩 𐑑𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑼𐑼𐑦 𐑛𐑲𐑝 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑥𐑽 𐑓𐑮𐑲𐑑; 𐑯 𐑦𐑓 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑻 𐑞 𐑒𐑱𐑕, ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚, 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑒𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑟, 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑟, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑪𐑤𐑝𐑛 𐑑 𐑕𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑕 𐑞 𐑤𐑨𐑙𐑜𐑢𐑦𐑖𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑝𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑲𐑐. 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑛𐑮𐑵 𐑦𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑑𐑚𐑨𐑯𐑛, 𐑢𐑺 𐑣𐑰 𐑷𐑤𐑢𐑱𐑟 𐑢𐑹 𐑦𐑑 𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑓𐑧𐑞𐑼. 𐑣𐑰 𐑤𐑴𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑑, 𐑯 𐑮𐑨𐑥𐑛 𐑣𐑴𐑥 𐑞 𐑤𐑴𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑔𐑳𐑥-𐑧𐑯𐑛; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑣𐑸𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑨𐑗 𐑩𐑒𐑮𐑪𐑕 𐑞 𐑮𐑳𐑓 𐑕𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑐𐑱𐑐𐑼 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 ·𐑑𐑨𐑖𐑑𐑱𐑜𐑴, 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽, 𐑣𐑵𐑟 𐑲𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑢𐑼𐑛 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑑𐑵 𐑓𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑟, 𐑕𐑳𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑮𐑪𐑐𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑤𐑲𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑑 𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑰𐑑, 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑒 𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑯𐑟𐑦 𐑝 𐑣𐑳𐑮𐑦, “𐑛𐑬𐑯, 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑷𐑤, 𐑯 𐑜𐑦𐑝 𐑢𐑱!—𐑞𐑺 𐑞𐑱 𐑸!”</p>
    <p>𐑑 𐑩 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟𐑥𐑩𐑯, 𐑯𐑴 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑯𐑹 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑕𐑲𐑯 𐑝 𐑩 𐑣𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑙, 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑝𐑦𐑟𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑; 𐑯𐑳𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑦𐑑 𐑝 𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑯𐑦𐑖 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼, 𐑯 𐑔𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑒𐑨𐑑𐑼𐑛 𐑐𐑳𐑓𐑕 𐑝 𐑝𐑱𐑐𐑼 𐑣𐑪𐑝𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑦𐑑, 𐑯 𐑕𐑩𐑓𐑿𐑟𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑤𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑓 𐑑 𐑤𐑰𐑢𐑼𐑛, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑓𐑿𐑟𐑛 𐑕𐑒𐑳𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑮𐑴𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑴𐑟. 𐑞 𐑺 𐑼𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑕𐑳𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑝𐑲𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑯 𐑑𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑩𐑤𐑛, 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑻, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞 𐑺 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑰𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑲𐑼𐑯. 𐑚𐑦𐑯𐑰𐑔 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑨𐑑𐑥𐑩𐑕𐑓𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑒 𐑢𐑱𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑯 𐑒𐑻𐑤𐑦𐑙, 𐑯 𐑐𐑸𐑖𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑦𐑯𐑰𐑔 𐑩 𐑔𐑦𐑯 𐑤𐑱𐑼 𐑝 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼, 𐑷𐑤𐑕𐑴, 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑙. 𐑕𐑰𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑩𐑛𐑝𐑭𐑯𐑕 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟, 𐑞 𐑐𐑳𐑓𐑕 𐑝 𐑝𐑱𐑐𐑼 𐑞𐑱 𐑕𐑐𐑬𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑞𐑺 𐑓𐑹𐑮𐑳𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑫𐑮𐑽𐑟 𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑑𐑨𐑗𐑑 𐑓𐑤𐑲𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑛𐑼𐑟.</p>
    <p>𐑷𐑤 𐑓𐑹 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕 𐑢𐑻 𐑯𐑬 𐑦𐑯 𐑒𐑰𐑯 𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑿𐑑 𐑝 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑕𐑐𐑪𐑑 𐑝 𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼 𐑯 𐑺. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑚𐑨𐑛 𐑓𐑺 𐑑 𐑬𐑑𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑐 𐑞𐑧𐑥; 𐑦𐑑 𐑓𐑤𐑵 𐑪𐑯 𐑯 𐑪𐑯, 𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑥𐑨𐑕 𐑝 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑚𐑤𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑳𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑚𐑹𐑯 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑩 𐑮𐑨𐑐𐑦𐑛 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑰𐑥 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑤𐑟.</p>
    <p>“𐑐𐑫𐑤, 𐑐𐑫𐑤, 𐑥𐑲 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑚𐑶𐑟,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒, 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑤𐑴𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑐𐑪𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑼 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑧𐑯; 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑞 𐑖𐑸𐑐 𐑓𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑑 𐑜𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑲𐑟 𐑛𐑸𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑩𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑬, 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑨𐑟 𐑑𐑵 𐑝𐑦𐑟𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑯𐑰𐑛𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑑𐑵 𐑳𐑯𐑻𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑕𐑩𐑟. 𐑣𐑰 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑱 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑮𐑵, 𐑞𐑴, 𐑯𐑹 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑮𐑵 𐑕𐑱 𐑧𐑯𐑦𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥. 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑞 𐑕𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑽𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑽 𐑢𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑼𐑟, 𐑯𐑬 𐑣𐑸𐑖 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑛, 𐑯𐑬 𐑕𐑪𐑓𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑰𐑑𐑦.</p>
    <p>𐑣𐑬 𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑞 𐑤𐑬𐑛 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 ·𐑒𐑦𐑙-·𐑐𐑴𐑕𐑑. “𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑑 𐑯 𐑕𐑱 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑔𐑦𐑙, 𐑥𐑲 𐑣𐑸𐑑𐑦𐑟. 𐑮𐑹 𐑯 𐑐𐑫𐑤, 𐑥𐑲 𐑔𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑚𐑴𐑤𐑑𐑕! 𐑚𐑰𐑗 𐑥𐑰, 𐑚𐑰𐑗 𐑥𐑰 𐑪𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒 𐑚𐑨𐑒𐑕, 𐑚𐑶𐑟; 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑵 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑓 𐑥𐑰, 𐑯 𐑲'𐑤 𐑕𐑲𐑯 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑑 𐑿 𐑥𐑲 ·𐑥𐑸𐑔𐑩'𐑟 ·𐑝𐑦𐑯𐑘𐑼𐑛 𐑐𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑑𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑚𐑶𐑟; 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑵𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑲𐑓 𐑯 𐑗𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑯, 𐑚𐑶𐑟. 𐑤𐑱 𐑥𐑰 𐑪𐑯—𐑤𐑱 𐑥𐑰 𐑪𐑯! 𐑴 ·𐑤𐑹𐑛, ·𐑤𐑹𐑛! 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑲 𐑖𐑨𐑤 𐑜𐑴 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑒, 𐑕𐑑𐑺𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑨𐑛! 𐑕𐑰! 𐑕𐑰 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼!” 𐑯 𐑕𐑴 𐑖𐑬𐑑𐑦𐑙, 𐑣𐑰 𐑐𐑫𐑤𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑧𐑛, 𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑥𐑐𐑑 𐑳𐑐 𐑯 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑪𐑯 𐑦𐑑; 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑑 𐑳𐑐, 𐑓𐑤𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑓𐑸 𐑪𐑓 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑰; 𐑯 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑧𐑤 𐑑 𐑮𐑽𐑦𐑙 𐑯 𐑐𐑤𐑳𐑯𐑡𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑'𐑕 𐑕𐑑𐑻𐑯 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑒𐑮𐑱𐑟𐑛 𐑒𐑴𐑤𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑺𐑦.</p>
    <p>“𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑗𐑨𐑐 𐑯𐑬,” 𐑓𐑦𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑪𐑓𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑮𐑷𐑤𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚, 𐑣𐑵, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑳𐑯𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑖𐑹𐑑 𐑐𐑲𐑐, 𐑥𐑦𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑢𐑰𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑰𐑔, 𐑨𐑑 𐑩 𐑖𐑹𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕, 𐑓𐑪𐑤𐑴𐑛 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼—“𐑣𐑰'𐑟 𐑜𐑪𐑑 𐑓𐑦𐑑𐑕, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 ·𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒 𐑣𐑨𐑟. 𐑓𐑦𐑑𐑕? 𐑘𐑧𐑕, 𐑜𐑦𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑓𐑦𐑑𐑕—𐑞𐑨𐑑'𐑕 𐑞 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑢𐑻𐑛—𐑐𐑦𐑗 𐑓𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 '𐑩𐑥. 𐑥𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑦, 𐑥𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑦, 𐑣𐑸𐑑𐑕-𐑩𐑤𐑲𐑝. 𐑐𐑫𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑓 𐑕𐑳𐑐𐑼, 𐑿 𐑯𐑴;—𐑥𐑧𐑮𐑦'𐑟 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑛. 𐑐𐑫𐑤, 𐑚𐑱𐑚𐑟—𐑐𐑫𐑤, 𐑕𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙𐑟—𐑐𐑫𐑤, 𐑷𐑤. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤 𐑸 𐑿 𐑣𐑳𐑮𐑦𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑? 𐑕𐑪𐑓𐑑𐑤𐑦, 𐑕𐑪𐑓𐑑𐑤𐑦, 𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑦, 𐑥𐑲 𐑥𐑧𐑯. 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑫𐑤, 𐑯 𐑒𐑰𐑐 𐑐𐑫𐑤𐑦𐑙; 𐑯𐑳𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑹. 𐑒𐑮𐑨𐑒 𐑷𐑤 𐑘𐑹 𐑚𐑨𐑒𐑚𐑴𐑯𐑟, 𐑯 𐑚𐑲𐑑 𐑘𐑹 𐑯𐑲𐑝𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑑𐑵—𐑞𐑨𐑑'𐑕 𐑷𐑤. 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑦𐑑 𐑰𐑟𐑦—𐑢𐑲 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑘𐑰 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑦𐑑 𐑰𐑟𐑦, 𐑲 𐑕𐑱, 𐑯 𐑚𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑘𐑹 𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑼𐑟 𐑯 𐑤𐑳𐑙𐑟!”</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑑𐑲𐑜𐑼-𐑘𐑧𐑤𐑴 𐑒𐑮𐑵 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟—𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑢𐑻𐑛𐑟 𐑚𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑴𐑥𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑽; 𐑓 𐑿 𐑤𐑦𐑝 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑞 𐑚𐑤𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑛 𐑤𐑲𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑰𐑝𐑨𐑯𐑡𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛. 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑤 𐑖𐑸𐑒𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑷𐑛𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑕 𐑕𐑰𐑟 𐑥𐑱 𐑜𐑦𐑝 𐑽 𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑢𐑻𐑛𐑟, 𐑢𐑧𐑯, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑑𐑹𐑯𐑱𐑛𐑴 𐑚𐑮𐑬, 𐑯 𐑲𐑟 𐑝 𐑮𐑧𐑛 𐑥𐑻𐑛𐑼, 𐑯 𐑓𐑴𐑥-𐑜𐑤𐑵𐑛 𐑤𐑦𐑐𐑕, ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑤𐑰𐑐𐑑 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑮𐑱.</p>
    <p>𐑥𐑰𐑯𐑢𐑲𐑤, 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕 𐑑𐑹 𐑪𐑯. 𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑰𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑕𐑐𐑩𐑕𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒 𐑩𐑤𐑵𐑠𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑝 ·𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒 𐑑 “𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤,” 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛 𐑞 𐑓𐑦𐑒𐑑𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑕 𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑼 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑣𐑰 𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑺𐑛 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑲𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑴𐑑'𐑕 𐑚𐑬 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑑𐑱𐑤—𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑩𐑤𐑵𐑠𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑨𐑑 𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑕𐑴 𐑝𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑛 𐑯 𐑤𐑲𐑓-𐑤𐑲𐑒, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑱 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑒𐑷𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑹 𐑑𐑵 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑑 𐑕𐑯𐑨𐑗 𐑩 𐑓𐑽𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 𐑖𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑼. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑮𐑵𐑤; 𐑓 𐑞 𐑹𐑟𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑐𐑫𐑑 𐑬𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑲𐑟, 𐑯 𐑮𐑨𐑥 𐑩 𐑕𐑒𐑿𐑼 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑞𐑺 𐑯𐑧𐑒𐑕; 𐑿𐑕𐑦𐑡 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑯𐑬𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑱 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑯𐑴 𐑹𐑜𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑽𐑟, 𐑯 𐑯𐑴 𐑤𐑦𐑥𐑟 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑸𐑥𐑟, 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑕.</p>
    <p>𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑕𐑲𐑑 𐑓𐑫𐑤 𐑝 𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑒 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑯 𐑷! 𐑞 𐑝𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑢𐑧𐑤𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑪𐑥𐑯𐑦𐑐𐑩𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑕𐑰; 𐑞 𐑕𐑻𐑡𐑦𐑙, 𐑣𐑪𐑤𐑴 𐑮𐑹 𐑞𐑱 𐑥𐑱𐑛, 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑱 𐑮𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑞 𐑱𐑑 𐑜𐑳𐑯𐑩𐑤𐑟, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑡𐑲𐑜𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑚𐑴𐑤𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑚𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑚𐑴𐑤𐑦𐑙-𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑯; 𐑞 𐑚𐑮𐑰𐑓 𐑕𐑩𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑨𐑜𐑩𐑯𐑦 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑, 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑑𐑦𐑐 𐑓 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑯𐑲𐑓-𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑧𐑡 𐑝 𐑞 𐑖𐑸𐑐𐑼 𐑢𐑱𐑝𐑟, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑔𐑮𐑧𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑒𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑑𐑵; 𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑛𐑦𐑐 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑜𐑤𐑧𐑯𐑟 𐑯 𐑣𐑪𐑤𐑴𐑟; 𐑞 𐑒𐑰𐑯 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑯 𐑜𐑴𐑛𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑑 𐑜𐑱𐑯 𐑞 𐑑𐑪𐑐 𐑝 𐑞 𐑪𐑐𐑩𐑟𐑦𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑤; 𐑞 𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑤𐑪𐑙, 𐑕𐑤𐑧𐑛-𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑕𐑤𐑲𐑛 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑕𐑲𐑛;—𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑰𐑟, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑟𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑯 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽𐑟, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑖𐑳𐑛𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑜𐑭𐑕𐑐𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑹𐑟𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑕 𐑕𐑲𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑲𐑝𐑼𐑦 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛 𐑚𐑺𐑦𐑙 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑻 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑬𐑑𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑗𐑑 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑟, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑢𐑲𐑤𐑛 𐑣𐑧𐑯 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑣𐑻 𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑮𐑵𐑛;—𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑔𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑙.</p>
    <p>𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑞 𐑮𐑷 𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑑, 𐑥𐑸𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑚𐑫𐑟𐑩𐑥 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑲𐑓 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑓𐑰𐑝𐑼 𐑣𐑰𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑨𐑑𐑩𐑤; 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑛 𐑥𐑨𐑯'𐑟 𐑜𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑳𐑯𐑯𐑴𐑯 𐑓𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑥 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛;—𐑯𐑲𐑞𐑼 𐑝 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑓𐑰𐑤 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑼 𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑪𐑙𐑜𐑼 𐑦𐑥𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑛𐑳𐑟, 𐑣𐑵 𐑓 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑐𐑫𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑗𐑸𐑥𐑛, 𐑗𐑻𐑯𐑛 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑞 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 𐑢𐑱𐑤.</p>
    <p>𐑞 𐑛𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑗𐑱𐑕 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑬 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑹 𐑯 𐑥𐑹 𐑝𐑦𐑟𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤, 𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑛𐑸𐑒𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑛𐑳𐑯 𐑒𐑤𐑬𐑛-𐑖𐑨𐑛𐑴𐑟 𐑓𐑤𐑳𐑙 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑰. 𐑞 𐑡𐑧𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑝𐑱𐑐𐑼 𐑯𐑴 𐑤𐑪𐑙𐑜𐑼 𐑚𐑤𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑑𐑦𐑤𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦𐑢𐑺 𐑑 𐑮𐑲𐑑 𐑯 𐑤𐑧𐑓𐑑; 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑕𐑧𐑐𐑼𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑱𐑒𐑕. 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕 𐑢𐑻 𐑐𐑫𐑤𐑛 𐑥𐑹 𐑩𐑐𐑸𐑑; ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒 𐑜𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑗𐑱𐑕 𐑑 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑮𐑳𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑛𐑧𐑛 𐑑 𐑤𐑰𐑢𐑼𐑛. 𐑬𐑼 𐑕𐑱𐑤 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑬 𐑕𐑧𐑑, 𐑯, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑮𐑲𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛, 𐑢𐑰 𐑮𐑳𐑖𐑑 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙; 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑜𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑥𐑨𐑛𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑞 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑤𐑰 𐑹𐑟 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑕𐑒𐑺𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑰 𐑢𐑻𐑒𐑑 𐑮𐑨𐑐𐑦𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑳𐑓 𐑑 𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑱𐑐 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑑𐑹𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑮𐑴-𐑤𐑪𐑒𐑕.</p>
    <p>𐑕𐑵𐑯 𐑢𐑰 𐑢𐑻 𐑮𐑳𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑩 𐑕𐑩𐑓𐑿𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑲𐑛 𐑝𐑱𐑤 𐑝 𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑑; 𐑯𐑲𐑞𐑼 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑯𐑹 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑕𐑰𐑯.</p>
    <p>“𐑜𐑦𐑝 𐑢𐑱, 𐑥𐑧𐑯,” 𐑢𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑼𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒, 𐑛𐑮𐑷𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑓𐑻𐑞𐑼 𐑭𐑓𐑑 𐑞 𐑖𐑰𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑱𐑤; “𐑞𐑺 𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑑 𐑒𐑦𐑤 𐑩 𐑓𐑦𐑖 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑞 𐑕𐑒𐑢𐑷𐑤 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑟. 𐑞𐑺'𐑟 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯!—𐑒𐑤𐑴𐑕 𐑑! 𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑙!”</p>
    <p>𐑕𐑵𐑯 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼, 𐑑𐑵 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑒 𐑕𐑩𐑒𐑕𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑪𐑯 𐑰𐑗 𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑝 𐑳𐑕 𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑴𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑜𐑪𐑑 𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑑; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑣𐑸𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑻 𐑞𐑱 𐑴𐑝𐑼𐑣𐑻𐑛, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑯𐑦𐑙-𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑣𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑼 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒 𐑕𐑧𐑛: “𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑳𐑐!” 𐑯 ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜, 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛, 𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑨𐑙 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑰𐑑.</p>
    <p>𐑞𐑴 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑹𐑟𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑓𐑱𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑤𐑲𐑓 𐑯 𐑛𐑧𐑔 𐑐𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑤 𐑕𐑴 𐑒𐑤𐑴𐑕 𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑩𐑣𐑧𐑛, 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑺 𐑲𐑟 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑕 𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑥𐑱𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑻𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑, 𐑞𐑱 𐑯𐑿 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑒𐑳𐑥; 𐑞𐑱 𐑣𐑻𐑛, 𐑑𐑵, 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑹𐑥𐑩𐑕 𐑢𐑪𐑤𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑨𐑟 𐑝 𐑓𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑦 𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑓𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑕𐑑𐑻𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑼. 𐑥𐑰𐑯𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑚𐑵𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑞 𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑑, 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑝𐑟 𐑒𐑻𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑼𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑳𐑕 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞 𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑒𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑦𐑯𐑮𐑱𐑡𐑛 𐑕𐑻𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕.</p>
    <p>“𐑞𐑨𐑑'𐑕 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑳𐑥𐑐. <i>𐑞𐑺</i>, <i>𐑞𐑺</i>, 𐑜𐑦𐑝 𐑦𐑑 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥!” 𐑢𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑼𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒.</p>
    <p>𐑩 𐑖𐑹𐑑 𐑮𐑳𐑖𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑤𐑰𐑐𐑑 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑; 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑛𐑸𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑲𐑼𐑯 𐑝 ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜. 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑢𐑧𐑤𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑦𐑟𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑐𐑫𐑖 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑩𐑕𐑑𐑻𐑯, 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑓𐑹𐑢𐑼𐑛 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑯 𐑩 𐑤𐑧𐑡; 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑤 𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑨𐑐𐑕𐑑 𐑯 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑤𐑴𐑛𐑩𐑛; 𐑩 𐑜𐑳𐑖 𐑝 𐑕𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑝𐑱𐑐𐑼 𐑖𐑪𐑑 𐑳𐑐 𐑯𐑽 𐑚𐑲; 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑮𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑯 𐑑𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩𐑯 𐑻𐑔𐑒𐑢𐑱𐑒 𐑚𐑦𐑯𐑰𐑔 𐑳𐑕. 𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑒𐑮𐑵 𐑢𐑻 𐑣𐑭𐑓 𐑕𐑳𐑓𐑩𐑒𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑱 𐑢𐑻 𐑑𐑪𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑑𐑼-𐑕𐑒𐑧𐑤𐑑𐑼 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑒𐑻𐑛𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑥 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑒𐑢𐑷𐑤. 𐑕𐑒𐑢𐑷𐑤, 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑯 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑷𐑤 𐑚𐑤𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑑𐑩𐑜𐑧𐑞𐑼; 𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑥𐑽𐑤𐑦 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑟𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑲𐑼𐑯, 𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑱𐑐𐑑.</p>
    <p>𐑞𐑴 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑰𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑢𐑪𐑥𐑐𐑑, 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑽𐑤𐑦 𐑳𐑯𐑣𐑸𐑥𐑛. 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑰 𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑑 𐑳𐑐 𐑞 𐑓𐑤𐑴𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑹𐑟, 𐑯 𐑤𐑨𐑖𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑩𐑒𐑮𐑪𐑕 𐑞 𐑜𐑳𐑯𐑩𐑤, 𐑑𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑨𐑒 𐑑 𐑬𐑼 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑟. 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑰 𐑕𐑨𐑑 𐑳𐑐 𐑑 𐑬𐑼 𐑯𐑰𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑰, 𐑞 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼 𐑒𐑳𐑝𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑮𐑦𐑚 𐑯 𐑐𐑤𐑨𐑙𐑒, 𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑑 𐑬𐑼 𐑛𐑬𐑯𐑢𐑼𐑛 𐑜𐑱𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑲𐑟 𐑞 𐑕𐑩𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑒𐑮𐑭𐑓𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑩 𐑒𐑪𐑮𐑩𐑤 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑜𐑮𐑴𐑯 𐑳𐑐 𐑑 𐑳𐑕 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑚𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑥 𐑝 𐑞 𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯.</p>
    <p>𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑕𐑑 𐑑 𐑩 𐑣𐑬𐑤; 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑝𐑟 𐑛𐑨𐑖𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑚𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑼𐑟 𐑑𐑩𐑜𐑧𐑞𐑼; 𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑕𐑒𐑢𐑷𐑤 𐑮𐑹𐑛, 𐑓𐑹𐑒𐑑, 𐑯 𐑒𐑮𐑨𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑼𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑳𐑕 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑓𐑲𐑼 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑺𐑦, 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑗, 𐑳𐑯𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑿𐑥𐑛, 𐑢𐑰 𐑢𐑻 𐑚𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙; 𐑦𐑥𐑹𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑡𐑷𐑟 𐑝 𐑛𐑧𐑔! 𐑦𐑯 𐑝𐑱𐑯 𐑢𐑰 𐑣𐑱𐑤𐑛 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕; 𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑮𐑹 𐑑 𐑞 𐑤𐑲𐑝 𐑒𐑴𐑤𐑟 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑞 𐑗𐑦𐑥𐑯𐑦 𐑝 𐑩 𐑓𐑤𐑱𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑕 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑱𐑤 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑥. 𐑥𐑰𐑯𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑞 𐑛𐑮𐑲𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑒𐑳𐑛, 𐑮𐑨𐑒, 𐑯 𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑑, 𐑜𐑮𐑵 𐑛𐑸𐑒𐑼 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑖𐑨𐑛𐑴𐑟 𐑝 𐑯𐑲𐑑; 𐑯𐑴 𐑕𐑲𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑚𐑰 𐑕𐑰𐑯. 𐑞 𐑮𐑲𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑰 𐑓𐑼𐑚𐑨𐑛 𐑷𐑤 𐑩𐑑𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑑𐑕 𐑑 𐑚𐑱𐑤 𐑬𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑. 𐑞 𐑹𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑿𐑕𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑨𐑟 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑐𐑧𐑤𐑼𐑟, 𐑐𐑼𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑯𐑬 𐑞 𐑪𐑓𐑦𐑕 𐑝 𐑤𐑲𐑓-𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑻𐑝𐑼𐑟. 𐑕𐑴, 𐑒𐑳𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑤𐑨𐑖𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼𐑐𐑮𐑵𐑓 𐑥𐑨𐑗 𐑒𐑧𐑜, 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑓𐑱𐑤𐑘𐑼𐑟 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑝𐑛 𐑑 𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑲𐑑 𐑞 𐑤𐑨𐑥𐑐 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑯; 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑓 𐑐𐑴𐑤, 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑑 ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑛-𐑚𐑺𐑼 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑓𐑼𐑤𐑹𐑯 𐑣𐑴𐑐. 𐑞𐑺, 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑨𐑑, 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑐 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑕𐑰𐑤 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑣𐑸𐑑 𐑝 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑲𐑑𐑦 𐑓𐑼𐑤𐑹𐑯𐑯𐑩𐑕. 𐑞𐑺, 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑨𐑑, 𐑞 𐑕𐑲𐑯 𐑯 𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑩 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑 𐑓𐑱𐑔, 𐑣𐑴𐑐𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑐 𐑣𐑴𐑐 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑺.</p>
    <p>𐑢𐑧𐑑, 𐑛𐑮𐑧𐑯𐑗𐑑 𐑔𐑮𐑵, 𐑯 𐑖𐑦𐑝𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑴𐑤𐑛, 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑺𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑹 𐑚𐑴𐑑, 𐑢𐑰 𐑤𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑳𐑐 𐑬𐑼 𐑲𐑟 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑛𐑷𐑯 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑪𐑯. 𐑞 𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑛 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 𐑕𐑰, 𐑞 𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑑𐑦 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑯 𐑤𐑱 𐑒𐑮𐑳𐑖𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑥 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑. 𐑕𐑳𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦 ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑰𐑑, 𐑣𐑪𐑤𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑽. 𐑢𐑰 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑻𐑛 𐑩 𐑓𐑱𐑯𐑑 𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑒𐑦𐑙, 𐑨𐑟 𐑝 𐑮𐑴𐑐𐑕 𐑯 𐑘𐑸𐑛𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑞𐑼𐑑𐑵 𐑥𐑳𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑥. 𐑞 𐑕𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑯𐑽𐑼 𐑯 𐑯𐑽𐑼; 𐑞 𐑔𐑦𐑒 𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑕 𐑢𐑻 𐑛𐑦𐑥𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑸𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑩 𐑣𐑿𐑡, 𐑝𐑱𐑜 𐑓𐑹𐑥. 𐑩𐑓𐑮𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑢𐑰 𐑷𐑤 𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑨𐑙 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑕𐑰 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑤𐑵𐑥𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑝𐑿, 𐑚𐑺𐑦𐑙 𐑮𐑲𐑑 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑳𐑕 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑝 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑥𐑹 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑤𐑧𐑙𐑔.</p>
    <p>𐑓𐑤𐑴𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑝𐑟 𐑢𐑰 𐑕𐑷 𐑞 𐑩𐑚𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑚𐑴𐑑, 𐑨𐑟 𐑓 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑑𐑪𐑕𐑑 𐑯 𐑜𐑱𐑐𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑯𐑰𐑔 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐'𐑕 𐑚𐑬𐑟 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑗𐑦𐑐 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑱𐑕 𐑝 𐑩 𐑒𐑨𐑑𐑼𐑨𐑒𐑑; 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑞 𐑝𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑳𐑤 𐑮𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑦𐑑, 𐑯 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑰𐑯 𐑯𐑴 𐑥𐑹 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑦𐑑 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑳𐑐 𐑢𐑧𐑤𐑑𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑕𐑑𐑻𐑯. 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯 𐑢𐑰 𐑕𐑢𐑨𐑥 𐑓 𐑦𐑑, 𐑢𐑻 𐑛𐑨𐑖𐑑 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑕𐑰𐑟, 𐑯 𐑢𐑻 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑳𐑐 𐑯 𐑕𐑱𐑓𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑪𐑯 𐑚𐑹𐑛. 𐑺 𐑞 𐑕𐑒𐑢𐑷𐑤 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑒𐑤𐑴𐑕 𐑑, 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑒𐑳𐑑 𐑤𐑵𐑕 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞𐑺 𐑓𐑦𐑖 𐑯 𐑮𐑩𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑦𐑯 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑑𐑲𐑥. 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑜𐑦𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑳𐑕 𐑳𐑐, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑟𐑦𐑙, 𐑦𐑓 𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑑 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑑 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑑𐑴𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑬𐑼 𐑐𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑖𐑦𐑙,—𐑩𐑯 𐑹 𐑹 𐑩 𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕 𐑐𐑴𐑤.</p>
  </body>
</html>
