<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Chapter 82</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="chapter-82" xml:lang="en-US">
      <h2 id="chapterheader-82">·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 82. 𐑞 ·𐑪𐑯𐑼 𐑯 ·𐑜𐑤𐑹𐑦 𐑝 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙.</h2>
    </div>
    <p>𐑞𐑺 𐑸 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑟𐑩𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑩 𐑒𐑺𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑹𐑛𐑼𐑤𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑑𐑮𐑵 𐑥𐑧𐑔𐑩𐑛.</p>
    <p>𐑞 𐑥𐑹 𐑲 𐑛𐑲𐑝 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑼 𐑝 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙, 𐑯 𐑐𐑫𐑖 𐑥𐑲 𐑮𐑰𐑕𐑻𐑗𐑩𐑟 𐑳𐑐 𐑑 𐑞 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑙-𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑝 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑴 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑞 𐑥𐑹 𐑨𐑥 𐑲 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑪𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑯 𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑑𐑦; 𐑯 𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑲 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑕𐑴 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑛𐑧𐑥𐑦-𐑜𐑪𐑛𐑟 𐑯 𐑣𐑽𐑴𐑟, 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑓𐑩𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑕𐑹𐑑𐑕, 𐑣𐑵 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑢𐑱 𐑹 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑖𐑧𐑛 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑦𐑑, 𐑲 𐑨𐑥 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑐𐑹𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑓𐑤𐑧𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑲 𐑥𐑲𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑪𐑙, 𐑞𐑴 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑹𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑑𐑤𐑦, 𐑑 𐑕𐑴 𐑦𐑥𐑚𐑤𐑱𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑩 𐑓𐑮𐑩𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑦.</p>
    <p>𐑞 𐑜𐑨𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑑 ·𐑐𐑻𐑕𐑾𐑕, 𐑩 𐑕𐑳𐑯 𐑝 ·𐑡𐑵𐑐𐑦𐑑𐑼, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑥𐑩𐑯; 𐑯 𐑑 𐑞 𐑦𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑪𐑯𐑼 𐑝 𐑬𐑼 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑰 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑧𐑛, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑩𐑑𐑨𐑒𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑬𐑼 𐑚𐑮𐑳𐑞𐑼𐑣𐑫𐑛 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑕𐑹𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑑. 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑞 𐑯𐑲𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑱𐑟 𐑝 𐑬𐑼 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑓𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑢𐑰 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑹 𐑸𐑥𐑟 𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑒𐑼 𐑞 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑, 𐑯 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑑 𐑓𐑦𐑤 𐑥𐑧𐑯'𐑟 𐑤𐑨𐑥𐑐-𐑓𐑰𐑛𐑼𐑟. 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑯𐑴𐑟 𐑞 𐑓𐑲𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑦 𐑝 ·𐑐𐑻𐑕𐑾𐑕 𐑯 ·𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑪𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑩; 𐑣𐑬 𐑞 𐑤𐑳𐑝𐑤𐑦 ·𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑪𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑩, 𐑞 𐑛𐑷𐑑𐑼 𐑝 𐑩 𐑒𐑦𐑙, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑑𐑲𐑛 𐑑 𐑩 𐑮𐑪𐑒 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑰-𐑒𐑴𐑕𐑑, 𐑯 𐑨𐑟 ·𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑨𐑒𐑑 𐑝 𐑒𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑻 𐑪𐑓, ·𐑐𐑻𐑕𐑾𐑕, 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑯𐑕 𐑝 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑐𐑦𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑛𐑝𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑙, 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑼, 𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑼𐑛 𐑯 𐑥𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑛 𐑞 𐑥𐑱𐑛. 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩𐑯 𐑨𐑛𐑥𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑸𐑑𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑤𐑶𐑑, 𐑮𐑺𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑗𐑰𐑝𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑚𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑛𐑱; 𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑟𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑦𐑕 ·𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑤𐑱𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑛𐑸𐑑. 𐑯 𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑯𐑴 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑛𐑬𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 ·𐑸𐑒𐑲𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑦; 𐑓 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑱𐑯𐑗𐑩𐑯𐑑 ·𐑡𐑪𐑐𐑩, 𐑯𐑬 ·𐑡𐑨𐑓𐑩, 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑦𐑮𐑾𐑯 𐑒𐑴𐑕𐑑, 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑱𐑜𐑩𐑯 𐑑𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑤𐑟, 𐑞𐑺 𐑕𐑑𐑫𐑛 𐑓 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑱𐑡𐑩𐑟 𐑞 𐑝𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑒𐑧𐑤𐑩𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑞 𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑦'𐑟 𐑤𐑧𐑡𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑣𐑨𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑩𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑞 𐑲𐑛𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑚𐑴𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑑 ·𐑐𐑻𐑕𐑾𐑕 𐑕𐑤𐑵. 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑮𐑴𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑑𐑫𐑒 ·𐑡𐑪𐑐𐑩, 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑕𐑒𐑧𐑤𐑩𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑒𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑛 𐑑 ·𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯 𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑳𐑥𐑓. 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑟 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑿𐑤𐑼 𐑯 𐑕𐑩𐑡𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑝𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑹𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑦, 𐑦𐑟 𐑞𐑦𐑕: 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 ·𐑡𐑪𐑐𐑩 𐑞𐑨𐑑 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩 𐑕𐑧𐑑 𐑕𐑱𐑤.</p>
    <p>𐑩𐑒𐑦𐑯 𐑑 𐑞 𐑩𐑛𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑗𐑼 𐑝 ·𐑐𐑻𐑕𐑾𐑕 𐑯 ·𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑪𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑩—𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑰𐑛, 𐑚𐑲 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑮𐑲𐑝𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑦𐑑—𐑦𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑓𐑱𐑥𐑩𐑕 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑦 𐑝 ·𐑕𐑑 ·𐑡𐑹𐑡 𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑛𐑮𐑨𐑜𐑩𐑯; 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑛𐑮𐑨𐑜𐑩𐑯 𐑲 𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑑𐑱𐑯 𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤; 𐑓 𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑒𐑮𐑪𐑯𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑯 𐑛𐑮𐑨𐑜𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑸 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑤𐑦 𐑡𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑑𐑩𐑜𐑧𐑞𐑼, 𐑯 𐑪𐑓𐑩𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑓 𐑰𐑗 𐑳𐑞𐑼. “𐑞𐑬 𐑸𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑤𐑲𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼𐑟, 𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑛𐑮𐑨𐑜𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑰,” 𐑕𐑧𐑔 ·𐑦𐑟𐑰𐑒𐑾𐑤; 𐑣𐑽𐑚𐑲, 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑥𐑰𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤; 𐑦𐑯 𐑑𐑮𐑵𐑔, 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑝𐑻𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑚𐑲𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑿𐑕 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑻𐑛 𐑦𐑑𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓. 𐑚𐑦𐑕𐑲𐑛𐑟, 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑒𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑜𐑤𐑹𐑦 𐑝 𐑞 𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑤𐑶𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑 ·𐑡𐑹𐑡 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑛 𐑩 𐑒𐑮𐑷𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑮𐑧𐑐𐑑𐑲𐑤 𐑝 𐑞 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛, 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑛 𐑝 𐑛𐑵𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑨𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑼 𐑝 𐑞 𐑛𐑰𐑐. 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑥𐑱 𐑒𐑦𐑤 𐑩 𐑕𐑯𐑱𐑒, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑩 ·𐑐𐑻𐑕𐑾𐑕, 𐑩 ·𐑕𐑑 ·𐑡𐑹𐑡, 𐑩 ·𐑒𐑪𐑓𐑦𐑯, 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑞 𐑣𐑸𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑑 𐑥𐑸𐑗 𐑚𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑳𐑐 𐑑 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤.</p>
    <p>𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑞 𐑥𐑪𐑛𐑼𐑯 𐑐𐑱𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑕𐑰𐑯 𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑛 𐑳𐑕; 𐑓 𐑞𐑴 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑗𐑼 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑝𐑨𐑤𐑾𐑯𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑦𐑟 𐑝𐑱𐑜𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑧𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑝 𐑩 𐑜𐑮𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑯-𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑖𐑱𐑐, 𐑯 𐑞𐑴 𐑞 𐑚𐑨𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑦𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑪𐑯 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑯𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑹𐑕𐑚𐑨𐑒, 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑝 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞 𐑑𐑮𐑵 𐑓𐑹𐑥 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑳𐑯𐑯𐑴𐑯 𐑑 𐑸𐑑𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑕; 𐑯 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑐𐑻𐑕𐑾𐑕' 𐑒𐑱𐑕, ·𐑕𐑑 ·𐑡𐑹𐑡'𐑩𐑟 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑒𐑮𐑷𐑤𐑛 𐑳𐑐 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑰 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑰𐑗; 𐑯 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑤 𐑮𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑚𐑲 ·𐑕𐑑 ·𐑡𐑹𐑡 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑩 𐑤𐑸𐑡 𐑕𐑰𐑤, 𐑹 𐑕𐑰-𐑣𐑹𐑕; 𐑚𐑺𐑦𐑙 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛, 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑩𐑐𐑽 𐑷𐑤𐑑𐑩𐑜𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑨𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑒𐑮𐑩𐑛 𐑤𐑧𐑡𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑯 𐑞 𐑱𐑯𐑗𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑛𐑮𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑰𐑯, 𐑑 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑕𐑴-𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛 𐑛𐑮𐑨𐑜𐑩𐑯 𐑯𐑴 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 ·𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓. 𐑦𐑯 𐑓𐑨𐑒𐑑, 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑑 𐑯 𐑐𐑽𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑑𐑮𐑵𐑔, 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑦 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑓𐑺 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑓𐑦𐑖, 𐑓𐑤𐑧𐑖, 𐑯 𐑓𐑬𐑤 𐑲𐑛𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑓𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑲𐑯𐑟, ·𐑛𐑨𐑜𐑩𐑯 𐑚𐑲 𐑯𐑱𐑥; 𐑣𐑵 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑐𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑞 𐑸𐑒 𐑝 ·𐑦𐑟𐑮𐑱𐑩𐑤, 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑹𐑕'𐑩𐑟 𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑯 𐑚𐑴𐑔 𐑞 𐑐𐑭𐑥𐑟 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑓𐑧𐑤 𐑪𐑓 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑯 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑥𐑐 𐑹 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑦 𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑛. 𐑞𐑳𐑕, 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑬𐑼 𐑴𐑯 𐑯𐑴𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑥𐑐, 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑥𐑩𐑯, 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑑𐑿𐑑𐑦𐑤𐑼𐑦 𐑜𐑸𐑛𐑾𐑯 𐑝 ·𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛; 𐑯 𐑚𐑲 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑮𐑲𐑑𐑕, 𐑢𐑰 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽𐑟 𐑝 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑚𐑰 𐑦𐑯𐑮𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑯𐑴𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑹𐑛𐑼 𐑝 ·𐑕𐑑 ·𐑡𐑹𐑡. 𐑯 𐑞𐑺𐑓𐑹, 𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑞 𐑯𐑲𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑪𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑦 (𐑯𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑣𐑵𐑥, 𐑲 𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑗𐑼 𐑑 𐑕𐑱, 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑑 𐑛𐑵 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞𐑺 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑐𐑱𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑯), 𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑲 𐑩 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑𐑼 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑛𐑱𐑯, 𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑕 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑬𐑼 𐑢𐑫𐑤𐑩𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑒𐑕 𐑯 𐑑𐑸𐑛 𐑑𐑮𐑴𐑟𐑼𐑟 𐑢𐑰 𐑸 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑚𐑧𐑑𐑼 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑑 ·𐑕𐑑 ·𐑡𐑹𐑡'𐑩𐑟 𐑛𐑧𐑒𐑼𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑞𐑱.</p>
    <p>𐑢𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑑 𐑩𐑛𐑥𐑦𐑑 ·𐑣𐑻𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑰𐑟 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑳𐑕 𐑹 𐑯𐑪𐑑, 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑲 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑛𐑿𐑚𐑾𐑕: 𐑓 𐑞𐑴 𐑩𐑒𐑹𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑒 𐑥𐑦𐑔𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑡𐑦𐑟, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑰𐑒 ·𐑒𐑮𐑪𐑒𐑦𐑑 𐑯 ·𐑒𐑦𐑑 ·𐑒𐑸𐑕𐑩𐑯—𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑚𐑮𐑷𐑯𐑦 𐑛𐑵𐑼 𐑝 𐑮𐑦𐑡𐑶𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑛𐑰𐑛𐑟, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑢𐑪𐑤𐑴𐑛 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑯 𐑔𐑮𐑴𐑯 𐑳𐑐 𐑚𐑲 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤; 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤, 𐑢𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑥𐑱𐑒𐑕 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑥𐑵𐑑𐑩𐑛. 𐑦𐑑 𐑯𐑴𐑢𐑺 𐑩𐑐𐑽𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑨𐑒𐑗𐑵𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑦𐑖, 𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑧𐑕, 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑰𐑛, 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑲𐑛. 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑞𐑩𐑤𐑧𐑕, 𐑣𐑰 𐑥𐑱 𐑚𐑰 𐑛𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑩 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑥𐑩𐑯; 𐑨𐑑 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑒𐑷𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑦𐑓 𐑣𐑰 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤. 𐑲 𐑒𐑤𐑱𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑓 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑬𐑼 𐑒𐑤𐑨𐑯.</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑳𐑑, 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑚𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑷𐑔𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑟, 𐑞𐑦𐑕 ·𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑦 𐑝 ·𐑣𐑻𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑰𐑟 𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑼𐑛 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑛𐑦𐑮𐑲𐑝𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑥𐑹 𐑱𐑯𐑗𐑩𐑯𐑑 ·𐑣𐑰𐑚𐑮𐑵 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑦 𐑝 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩 𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤; 𐑯 𐑝𐑲𐑕 𐑝𐑻𐑕𐑩; 𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑞𐑱 𐑸 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑤𐑼. 𐑦𐑓 𐑲 𐑒𐑤𐑱𐑥 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑥𐑦-𐑜𐑪𐑛 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑢𐑲 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑓𐑩𐑑?</p>
    <p>𐑯𐑹 𐑛𐑵 𐑣𐑽𐑴𐑟, 𐑕𐑱𐑯𐑑𐑕, 𐑛𐑧𐑥𐑦𐑜𐑪𐑛𐑟, 𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑓𐑩𐑑𐑕 𐑩𐑤𐑴𐑯 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑟 𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑮𐑴𐑤 𐑝 𐑬𐑼 𐑹𐑛𐑼. 𐑬𐑼 𐑜𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑼 𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑯𐑱𐑥𐑛; 𐑓 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑮𐑶𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑝 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟, 𐑢𐑰 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑝 𐑬𐑼 𐑓𐑮𐑩𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑦𐑯 𐑯𐑳𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑖𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑜𐑪𐑛𐑟 𐑞𐑧𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑝𐑟. 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑕 ·𐑹𐑦𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑦 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑬 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑮𐑦𐑣𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 ·𐑖𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑼, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑜𐑦𐑝𐑟 𐑳𐑕 𐑞 𐑛𐑮𐑧𐑛 ·𐑝𐑦𐑖𐑯𐑵, 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑐𐑻𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑜𐑪𐑛𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑣𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑵𐑟; 𐑜𐑦𐑝𐑟 𐑳𐑕 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑛𐑦𐑝𐑲𐑯 ·𐑝𐑦𐑖𐑯𐑵 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑓 𐑬𐑼 ·𐑤𐑹𐑛;—·𐑝𐑦𐑖𐑯𐑵, 𐑣𐑵, 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑧𐑯 𐑻𐑔𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑸𐑯𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟, 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑓 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑕𐑧𐑑 𐑩𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑯 𐑕𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑑𐑦𐑓𐑲𐑛 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤. 𐑢𐑧𐑯 ·𐑚𐑮𐑭𐑥𐑩, 𐑹 𐑞 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛 𐑝 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛𐑟, 𐑕𐑧𐑔 𐑞 ·𐑖𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑼, 𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑪𐑤𐑝𐑛 𐑑 𐑮𐑰𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑱𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑐𐑽𐑦𐑪𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑵𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟, 𐑣𐑰 𐑜𐑱𐑝 𐑚𐑻𐑔 𐑑 ·𐑝𐑦𐑖𐑯𐑵, 𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑲𐑛 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑒; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑝𐑧𐑛𐑩𐑟, 𐑹 𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑚𐑫𐑒𐑕, 𐑣𐑵𐑟 𐑐𐑼𐑵𐑟𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑕𐑰𐑥 𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑑 ·𐑝𐑦𐑖𐑯𐑵 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑞𐑺𐑓𐑹 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑖𐑱𐑐 𐑝 𐑐𐑮𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑑 𐑘𐑳𐑙 𐑸𐑒𐑦𐑑𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑕, 𐑞𐑰𐑟 ·𐑝𐑧𐑛𐑩𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑤𐑲𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑥 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼𐑟; 𐑕𐑴 ·𐑝𐑦𐑖𐑯𐑵 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑸𐑯𐑩𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑯 𐑕𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑑 𐑞 𐑳𐑑𐑼𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑛𐑧𐑐𐑔𐑕, 𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑒𐑿𐑛 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑒𐑮𐑩𐑛 𐑝𐑪𐑤𐑿𐑥𐑟. 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 ·𐑝𐑦𐑖𐑯𐑵 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑥𐑩𐑯, 𐑞𐑧𐑯? 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑣𐑵 𐑮𐑲𐑛𐑟 𐑩 𐑣𐑹𐑕 𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛 𐑩 𐑣𐑹𐑕𐑥𐑩𐑯?</p>
    <p>𐑐𐑻𐑕𐑾𐑕, ·𐑕𐑑 ·𐑡𐑹𐑡, ·𐑣𐑻𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑰𐑟, ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩, 𐑯 ·𐑝𐑦𐑖𐑯𐑵! 𐑞𐑺'𐑟 𐑩 𐑥𐑧𐑥𐑚𐑼-𐑮𐑴𐑤 𐑓 𐑿! 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑒𐑤𐑳𐑚 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑥𐑩𐑯'𐑟 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑪𐑓 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞𐑨𐑑?</p>
  </body>
</html>
