<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Chapter 99</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="chapter-99" xml:lang="en-US">
      <h2 id="chapterheader-99">·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 99. 𐑞 ·𐑛𐑳𐑚𐑤𐑵𐑯.</h2>
    </div>
    <p>𐑺 𐑯𐑬 𐑦𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑬 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑢𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑑 𐑐𐑱𐑕 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑢𐑹𐑑𐑼-𐑛𐑧𐑒, 𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑮𐑧𐑜𐑿𐑤𐑼 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑟 𐑨𐑑 𐑲𐑞𐑼 𐑤𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑑, 𐑞 𐑚𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑯 𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑳𐑤𐑑𐑦𐑐𐑤𐑦𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑯𐑼𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑨𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑬 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑢𐑷𐑒𐑕, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑐𐑤𐑳𐑯𐑡𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑵𐑛, 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑢𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑑 𐑐𐑷𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑑𐑻𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑰𐑗 𐑕𐑐𐑪𐑑, 𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑞𐑺 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑤𐑦 𐑲𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑐𐑼𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑼 𐑪𐑚𐑡𐑧𐑒𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑣𐑦𐑥. 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑷𐑤𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑞 𐑚𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑒𐑩𐑤, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑜𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕 𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑯𐑰𐑛𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑕, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑜𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕 𐑖𐑪𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑡𐑨𐑝𐑤𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑻𐑐𐑩𐑕; 𐑯 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑿𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑷𐑒 𐑣𐑰 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯 𐑐𐑷𐑟𐑛 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑞 𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑, 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑩𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑜𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕 𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑩𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑜𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑒𐑶𐑯 𐑞𐑺, 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑢𐑹 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑨𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑑 𐑝 𐑯𐑱𐑤𐑛 𐑓𐑻𐑥𐑯𐑩𐑕, 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑨𐑖𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑲𐑤𐑛 𐑤𐑪𐑙𐑦𐑙, 𐑦𐑓 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑣𐑴𐑐𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑯𐑩𐑕.</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑥𐑹𐑯𐑦𐑙, 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑐𐑭𐑕 𐑞 𐑛𐑳𐑚𐑤𐑵𐑯, 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑯𐑿𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡 𐑓𐑦𐑜𐑼𐑟 𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑥𐑐𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑦𐑑, 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑴 𐑯𐑬 𐑓 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑻𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑑 𐑓 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑩𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑦𐑨𐑒 𐑢𐑱 𐑢𐑪𐑑𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑕𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑤𐑻𐑒 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑥. 𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑕𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑤𐑻𐑒𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑟, 𐑧𐑤𐑕 𐑷𐑤 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑸 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑻𐑔, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛 𐑦𐑑𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩𐑯 𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑑𐑦 𐑕𐑲𐑓𐑼, 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑧𐑐𐑑 𐑑 𐑕𐑧𐑤 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑒𐑸𐑑𐑤𐑴𐑛, 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑱 𐑛𐑵 𐑣𐑦𐑤𐑟 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 ·𐑚𐑪𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯, 𐑑 𐑓𐑦𐑤 𐑳𐑐 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑥𐑼𐑨𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑥𐑦𐑤𐑒𐑦 𐑢𐑱.</p>
    <p>𐑯𐑬 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑛𐑳𐑚𐑤𐑵𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑝 𐑐𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑩𐑕𐑑, 𐑝𐑻𐑡𐑦𐑯 𐑜𐑴𐑤𐑛, 𐑮𐑱𐑒𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑢𐑺 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑣𐑸𐑑 𐑝 𐑜𐑹𐑡𐑩𐑕 𐑣𐑦𐑤𐑟, 𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑕, 𐑰𐑕𐑑 𐑯 𐑢𐑧𐑕𐑑, 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑜𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑕𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟, 𐑞 𐑣𐑧𐑛-𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑝 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑩 ·𐑐𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑴𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑓𐑤𐑴𐑟. 𐑯 𐑞𐑴 𐑯𐑬 𐑯𐑱𐑤𐑛 𐑩𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑕𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑮𐑳𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑲𐑼𐑯 𐑚𐑴𐑤𐑑𐑕 𐑯 𐑞 𐑝𐑻𐑛𐑦𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑕 𐑝 𐑒𐑪𐑐𐑼 𐑕𐑐𐑲𐑒𐑕, 𐑘𐑧𐑑, 𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑗𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑯 𐑦𐑥𐑨𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑩𐑑 𐑑 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑓𐑬𐑤𐑯𐑩𐑕, 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑻𐑝𐑛 𐑦𐑑𐑕 ·𐑒𐑰𐑑𐑴 𐑜𐑤𐑴. 𐑯𐑹, 𐑞𐑴 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕𐑑 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙𐑕𐑑 𐑩 𐑮𐑵𐑔𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑒𐑮𐑵 𐑯 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑬𐑼 𐑐𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑮𐑵𐑔𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟, 𐑯 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑞 𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑯𐑲𐑑𐑕 𐑖𐑮𐑬𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑔𐑦𐑒 𐑛𐑸𐑒𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑒𐑳𐑝𐑼 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑐𐑦𐑤𐑓𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑗, 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑞𐑩𐑤𐑧𐑕 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑕𐑳𐑯𐑮𐑲𐑟 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑛𐑳𐑚𐑤𐑵𐑯 𐑢𐑺 𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑯𐑕𐑧𐑑 𐑤𐑧𐑓𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑. 𐑓 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑧𐑑 𐑩𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑯 𐑕𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑑𐑦𐑓𐑲𐑛 𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑷-𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑧𐑯𐑛; 𐑯 𐑣𐑬𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑢𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼 𐑢𐑱𐑟, 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑯 𐑷𐑤, 𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑯𐑼𐑟 𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑽𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤'𐑟 𐑑𐑨𐑤𐑦𐑟𐑥𐑩𐑯. 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑞𐑱 𐑑𐑷𐑒𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑽𐑦 𐑢𐑪𐑗 𐑚𐑲 𐑯𐑲𐑑, 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑵𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑, 𐑯 𐑢𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑤𐑦𐑝 𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑑.</p>
    <p>𐑯𐑬 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑯𐑴𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑜𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑒𐑶𐑯𐑟 𐑝 ·𐑕𐑬𐑔 ·𐑩𐑥𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩 𐑸 𐑨𐑟 𐑥𐑧𐑛𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑯 𐑯 𐑑𐑮𐑪𐑐𐑦𐑒 𐑑𐑴𐑒𐑩𐑯-𐑐𐑰𐑕𐑩𐑟. 𐑣𐑽 𐑐𐑭𐑥𐑟, 𐑨𐑤𐑐𐑨𐑒𐑩𐑟, 𐑯 𐑝𐑪𐑤𐑒𐑱𐑯𐑴𐑟; 𐑕𐑳𐑯'𐑟 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑕 𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑟; 𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑦𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑕, 𐑣𐑹𐑯𐑟-𐑝-𐑐𐑤𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑦, 𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑗 𐑚𐑨𐑯𐑼𐑟 𐑢𐑱𐑝𐑦𐑙, 𐑸 𐑦𐑯 𐑤𐑳𐑜𐑠𐑫𐑼𐑾𐑯𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑓𐑿𐑠𐑩𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑥𐑐𐑑; 𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑕 𐑜𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑟 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑮𐑲𐑝 𐑩𐑯 𐑨𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑕𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑣𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑜𐑤𐑹𐑦𐑟, 𐑚𐑲 𐑐𐑭𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑓𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑦 𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑕, 𐑕𐑴 ·𐑕𐑐𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑖𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑴𐑧𐑑𐑦𐑒.</p>
    <p>𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑴 𐑗𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑛𐑳𐑚𐑤𐑵𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑧𐑤𐑔𐑦 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑭𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑟. 𐑪𐑯 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑚𐑹𐑛𐑼 𐑦𐑑 𐑚𐑹 𐑞 𐑤𐑧𐑑𐑼𐑟, ·𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑳𐑚𐑤𐑦𐑒𐑩 ·𐑛𐑧𐑤 ·𐑧𐑒𐑢𐑩𐑛𐑹: ·𐑒𐑰𐑑𐑴. 𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑚𐑮𐑲𐑑 𐑒𐑶𐑯 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑩 𐑒𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑦 𐑐𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛, 𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑯𐑰𐑔 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑦𐑒𐑢𐑱𐑑𐑼, 𐑯 𐑯𐑱𐑥𐑛 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑦𐑑; 𐑯 𐑦𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑒𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑢𐑱 𐑳𐑐 𐑞 ·𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑰𐑟, 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑳𐑯𐑢𐑱𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑤𐑲𐑥 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑯𐑴𐑟 𐑯𐑴 𐑷𐑑𐑩𐑥. 𐑟𐑴𐑯𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑤𐑧𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑿 𐑕𐑷 𐑞 𐑤𐑲𐑒𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑔𐑮𐑰 ·𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑰𐑟' 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑦𐑑𐑕; 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑩 𐑓𐑤𐑱𐑥; 𐑩 𐑑𐑬𐑼 𐑪𐑯 𐑩𐑯𐑳𐑞𐑼; 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑔𐑻𐑛 𐑩 𐑒𐑮𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑪𐑒; 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑸𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑷𐑤 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑕𐑧𐑜𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑐𐑸𐑑𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑟𐑴𐑛𐑦𐑨𐑒, 𐑞 𐑕𐑲𐑯𐑟 𐑷𐑤 𐑥𐑸𐑒𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑺 𐑿𐑠𐑵𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑩𐑚𐑨𐑤𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑕, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑰𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑯 𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑪𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑤 𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑 𐑨𐑑 ·𐑤𐑲𐑚𐑮𐑩.</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑧𐑒𐑢𐑩𐑑𐑹𐑾𐑤 𐑒𐑶𐑯, ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚, 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑳𐑯𐑩𐑚𐑟𐑻𐑝𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑳𐑞𐑼𐑟, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑬 𐑐𐑷𐑟𐑦𐑙.</p>
    <p>“𐑞𐑺'𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑰𐑜𐑴𐑑𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑯-𐑑𐑪𐑐𐑕 𐑯 𐑑𐑬𐑼𐑟, 𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑜𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑯 𐑤𐑪𐑓𐑑𐑦 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑟; 𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑣𐑽,—𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑕 𐑨𐑟 𐑐𐑮𐑬𐑛 𐑨𐑟 ·𐑤𐑵𐑕𐑦𐑓𐑼. 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑥 𐑑𐑬𐑼, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑟 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚; 𐑞 𐑝𐑪𐑤𐑒𐑱𐑯𐑴, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑟 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚; 𐑞 𐑒𐑼𐑱𐑡𐑩𐑕, 𐑞 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑷𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑯 𐑝𐑦𐑒𐑑𐑹𐑾𐑕 𐑓𐑬𐑤, 𐑞𐑨𐑑, 𐑑𐑵, 𐑦𐑟 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚; 𐑷𐑤 𐑸 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚; 𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑜𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑡 𐑝 𐑞 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑜𐑤𐑴𐑚, 𐑢𐑦𐑗, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑥𐑩𐑡𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯'𐑟 𐑜𐑤𐑭𐑕, 𐑑 𐑰𐑗 𐑯 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑑𐑻𐑯 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑥𐑦𐑮𐑼𐑟 𐑚𐑨𐑒 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯 𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑽𐑾𐑕 𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓. 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑐𐑱𐑯𐑟, 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤 𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑟 𐑓 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑣𐑵 𐑭𐑕𐑒 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛 𐑑 𐑕𐑪𐑤𐑝 𐑞𐑧𐑥; 𐑦𐑑 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑪𐑤𐑝 𐑦𐑑𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓. 𐑥𐑦𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑕 𐑯𐑬 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑒𐑶𐑯𐑛 𐑕𐑳𐑯 𐑢𐑺𐑟 𐑩 𐑮𐑳𐑛𐑦 𐑓𐑱𐑕; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑰! 𐑲, 𐑣𐑰 𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑞 𐑕𐑲𐑯 𐑝 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑥𐑟, 𐑞 𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑪𐑒𐑕! 𐑯 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑕 𐑥𐑳𐑯𐑔𐑕 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑰𐑤𐑛 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑩 𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑼 𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑪𐑒𐑕 𐑨𐑑 ·𐑺𐑦𐑟! 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑥 𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑥! 𐑕𐑴 𐑚𐑰 𐑦𐑑, 𐑞𐑧𐑯. 𐑚𐑹𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑔𐑮𐑴𐑟, '𐑑𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑦𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑤𐑦𐑝 𐑦𐑯 𐑐𐑱𐑯𐑟 𐑯 𐑛𐑲 𐑦𐑯 𐑐𐑨𐑙𐑟! 𐑕𐑴 𐑚𐑰 𐑦𐑑, 𐑞𐑧𐑯! 𐑣𐑽'𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑬𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑓 𐑓 𐑢𐑴 𐑑 𐑢𐑻𐑒 𐑪𐑯. 𐑕𐑴 𐑚𐑰 𐑦𐑑, 𐑞𐑧𐑯.”</p>
    <p>“𐑯𐑴 𐑓𐑺𐑦 𐑓𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑼𐑟 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑞 𐑜𐑴𐑤𐑛, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑛𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤'𐑟 𐑒𐑤𐑷𐑟 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑤𐑧𐑓𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑥𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑞𐑺 𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑕 𐑘𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑛𐑱,” 𐑥𐑻𐑥𐑼𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓, 𐑤𐑰𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑫𐑤𐑢𐑼𐑒𐑕. “𐑞 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑟 𐑑 𐑮𐑰𐑛 ·𐑚𐑧𐑤𐑖𐑩𐑟𐑸'𐑟 𐑷𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑮𐑲𐑑𐑦𐑙. 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑥𐑸𐑒𐑑 𐑞 𐑒𐑶𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦. 𐑣𐑰 𐑜𐑴𐑟 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑴; 𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑥𐑰 𐑮𐑰𐑛. 𐑩 𐑛𐑸𐑒 𐑝𐑨𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑢𐑰𐑯 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑥𐑲𐑑𐑦, 𐑣𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯-𐑩𐑚𐑲𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑕, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥 𐑞 ·𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑦, 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑓𐑱𐑯𐑑 𐑻𐑔𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤. 𐑕𐑴 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑝𐑱𐑤 𐑝 ·𐑛𐑧𐑔, ·𐑜𐑪𐑛 𐑜𐑻𐑛𐑟 𐑳𐑕 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛; 𐑯 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑷𐑤 𐑬𐑼 𐑜𐑤𐑵𐑥, 𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑯 𐑝 ·𐑮𐑲𐑗𐑩𐑕𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑖𐑲𐑯𐑟 𐑩 𐑚𐑰𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑯 𐑩 𐑣𐑴𐑐. 𐑦𐑓 𐑢𐑰 𐑚𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑬𐑼 𐑲𐑟, 𐑞 𐑛𐑸𐑒 𐑝𐑱𐑤 𐑖𐑴𐑟 𐑣𐑻 𐑥𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑦 𐑕𐑶𐑤; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑓 𐑢𐑰 𐑤𐑦𐑓𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑥, 𐑞 𐑚𐑮𐑲𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑯 𐑥𐑰𐑑𐑕 𐑬𐑼 𐑜𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕 𐑣𐑭𐑓 𐑢𐑱, 𐑑 𐑗𐑽. 𐑘𐑧𐑑, 𐑴, 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑯 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑴 𐑓𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑗𐑼; 𐑯 𐑦𐑓, 𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑯𐑲𐑑, 𐑢𐑰 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑓𐑱𐑯 𐑕𐑯𐑨𐑗 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑕𐑢𐑰𐑑 𐑕𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑕 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑢𐑰 𐑜𐑱𐑟 𐑓 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑦𐑯 𐑝𐑱𐑯! 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑒𐑶𐑯 𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑕 𐑢𐑲𐑟𐑤𐑦, 𐑥𐑲𐑤𐑛𐑤𐑦, 𐑑𐑮𐑵𐑤𐑦, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑕𐑨𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑑 𐑥𐑰. 𐑲 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑑, 𐑤𐑧𐑕𐑑 ·𐑑𐑮𐑵𐑔 𐑖𐑱𐑒 𐑥𐑰 𐑓𐑷𐑤𐑕𐑤𐑦.”</p>
    <p>“𐑞𐑺 𐑯𐑬'𐑟 𐑞 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑥𐑴𐑜𐑩𐑤,” 𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑤𐑩𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑟𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑑𐑮𐑲-𐑢𐑻𐑒𐑕, “𐑣𐑰'𐑟 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑑𐑢𐑦𐑜𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑑; 𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑜𐑴𐑟 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑥, 𐑯 𐑚𐑴𐑔 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑓𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑲 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑕𐑱 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑢𐑺 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑦𐑯 𐑯𐑲𐑯 𐑓𐑨𐑞𐑩𐑥𐑟 𐑤𐑪𐑙. 𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑑 𐑩 𐑐𐑰𐑕 𐑝 𐑜𐑴𐑤𐑛, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑦𐑑 𐑯𐑬 𐑪𐑯 ·𐑯𐑰𐑜𐑮𐑴 ·𐑣𐑦𐑤 𐑹 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑒𐑹𐑤𐑩𐑼'𐑟 ·𐑣𐑫𐑒, 𐑲'𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑺 𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑑. 𐑣𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑓! 𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑲 𐑐𐑫𐑼, 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑩𐑐𐑦𐑯𐑘𐑩𐑯, 𐑲 𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑸𐑛 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑨𐑟 𐑒𐑢𐑽. 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑕𐑰𐑯 𐑛𐑳𐑚𐑤𐑵𐑯𐑟 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑯𐑬 𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑲 𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡𐑦𐑙𐑟; 𐑘𐑹 𐑛𐑳𐑚𐑤𐑵𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑕𐑐𐑱𐑯, 𐑘𐑹 𐑛𐑳𐑚𐑤𐑵𐑯𐑟 𐑝 ·𐑐𐑼𐑵, 𐑘𐑹 𐑛𐑳𐑚𐑤𐑵𐑯𐑟 𐑝 ·𐑗𐑦𐑤𐑦, 𐑘𐑹 𐑛𐑳𐑚𐑤𐑵𐑯𐑟 𐑝 ·𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑾, 𐑘𐑹 𐑛𐑳𐑚𐑤𐑵𐑯𐑟 𐑝 ·𐑐𐑴𐑐𐑲𐑩𐑯; 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑐𐑤𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑜𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑥𐑶𐑛𐑹𐑟 𐑯 𐑐𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑤𐑟, 𐑯 ·𐑡𐑴𐑟, 𐑯 𐑣𐑭𐑓 ·𐑡𐑴𐑟, 𐑯 𐑒𐑢𐑹𐑑𐑼 ·𐑡𐑴𐑟. 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑞𐑺 𐑚𐑰 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑛𐑳𐑚𐑤𐑵𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑦𐑒𐑢𐑱𐑑𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑴 𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑓𐑩𐑤? 𐑚𐑲 ·𐑜𐑪𐑤𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑛𐑩! 𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑥𐑰 𐑮𐑰𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕. 𐑣𐑩𐑤𐑴! 𐑣𐑽'𐑟 𐑕𐑲𐑯𐑟 𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑟 𐑑𐑮𐑵𐑤𐑦! 𐑞𐑨𐑑, 𐑯𐑬, 𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑚𐑬𐑛𐑦𐑗 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 ·𐑦𐑐𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑥𐑦 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑟 𐑞 𐑟𐑴𐑛𐑦𐑨𐑒, 𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑥𐑲 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑨𐑒 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑴 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑟 𐑛𐑦𐑑𐑴. 𐑲'𐑤 𐑜𐑧𐑑 𐑞 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑨𐑒 𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑣𐑻𐑛 𐑛𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑚𐑰 𐑮𐑱𐑟𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 ·𐑛𐑨𐑚𐑩𐑤'𐑟 𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑔𐑥𐑧𐑑𐑦𐑒, 𐑲'𐑤 𐑑𐑮𐑲 𐑥𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑮𐑱𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑥𐑰𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑒𐑢𐑽 𐑒𐑻𐑝𐑦𐑒𐑘𐑵𐑟 𐑣𐑽 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 ·𐑥𐑨𐑕𐑩𐑗𐑵𐑕𐑩𐑑𐑕 𐑒𐑨𐑤𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑼. 𐑣𐑽'𐑟 𐑞 𐑚𐑫𐑒. 𐑤𐑧𐑑'𐑕 𐑕𐑰 𐑯𐑬. 𐑕𐑲𐑯𐑟 𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑟; 𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑯, 𐑣𐑰'𐑟 𐑷𐑤𐑢𐑱𐑟 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 '𐑩𐑥. 𐑣𐑧𐑥, 𐑣𐑧𐑥, 𐑣𐑧𐑥; 𐑣𐑽 𐑞𐑱 𐑸—𐑣𐑽 𐑞𐑱 𐑜𐑴—𐑷𐑤 𐑩𐑤𐑲𐑝:—·𐑺𐑦𐑟, 𐑹 𐑞 ·𐑮𐑨𐑥; ·𐑑𐑹𐑩𐑕, 𐑹 𐑞 ·𐑚𐑫𐑤 𐑯 ·𐑡𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑥𐑦! 𐑣𐑽'𐑟 ·𐑡𐑧𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑲 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓, 𐑹 𐑞 ·𐑑𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑟. 𐑢𐑧𐑤; 𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑰𐑤𐑟 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 '𐑩𐑥. 𐑲, 𐑣𐑽 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑶𐑯 𐑣𐑰'𐑟 𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑒𐑮𐑪𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑔𐑮𐑧𐑖𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑢𐑰𐑯 𐑑𐑵 𐑝 𐑑𐑢𐑧𐑤𐑝 𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑙-𐑮𐑵𐑥𐑟 𐑷𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑮𐑦𐑙. 𐑚𐑫𐑒! 𐑿 𐑤𐑲 𐑞𐑺; 𐑞 𐑓𐑨𐑒𐑑 𐑦𐑟, 𐑿 𐑚𐑫𐑒𐑕 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑯𐑴 𐑘𐑹 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑟. 𐑿'𐑤 𐑛𐑵 𐑑 𐑜𐑦𐑝 𐑳𐑕 𐑞 𐑚𐑺 𐑢𐑻𐑛𐑟 𐑯 𐑓𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑕, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑰 𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑦𐑯 𐑑 𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑤𐑲 𐑞 𐑔𐑷𐑑𐑕. 𐑞𐑨𐑑'𐑕 𐑥𐑲 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑽𐑾𐑯𐑕, 𐑕𐑴 𐑓𐑸 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 ·𐑥𐑨𐑕𐑩𐑗𐑵𐑕𐑩𐑑𐑕 𐑒𐑨𐑤𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑼, 𐑯 ·𐑚𐑬𐑛𐑦𐑗'𐑩𐑟 𐑯𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑜𐑱𐑑𐑼, 𐑯 ·𐑛𐑨𐑚𐑩𐑤'𐑟 𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑔𐑥𐑧𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑜𐑴. 𐑕𐑲𐑯𐑟 𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑟, 𐑱? 𐑐𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑦𐑓 𐑞𐑺 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑳𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑲𐑯𐑟, 𐑯 𐑕𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑟! 𐑞𐑺'𐑟 𐑩 𐑒𐑤𐑵 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑢𐑺; 𐑢𐑱𐑑 𐑩 𐑚𐑦𐑑; 𐑣𐑦𐑕𐑑—𐑣𐑸𐑒! 𐑚𐑲 ·𐑡𐑴𐑝, 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑦𐑑! 𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑿, ·𐑛𐑳𐑚𐑤𐑵𐑯, 𐑘𐑹 𐑟𐑴𐑛𐑦𐑨𐑒 𐑣𐑽 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑤𐑲𐑓 𐑝 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼; 𐑯 𐑯𐑬 𐑲'𐑤 𐑮𐑰𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑪𐑓, 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑫𐑒. 𐑒𐑳𐑥, ·𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑨𐑒! 𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑦𐑯: 𐑞𐑺'𐑟 ·𐑺𐑦𐑟, 𐑹 𐑞 ·𐑮𐑨𐑥—𐑤𐑧𐑗𐑼𐑩𐑕 𐑛𐑪𐑜, 𐑣𐑰 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑧𐑑𐑕 𐑳𐑕; 𐑞𐑧𐑯, ·𐑑𐑹𐑩𐑕, 𐑹 𐑞 ·𐑚𐑫𐑤—𐑣𐑰 𐑚𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑕 𐑳𐑕 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑔𐑦𐑙; 𐑞𐑧𐑯 ·𐑡𐑧𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑲, 𐑹 𐑞 ·𐑑𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑟—𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑟, ·𐑝𐑻𐑗𐑵 𐑯 ·𐑝𐑲𐑕; 𐑢𐑰 𐑑𐑮𐑲 𐑑 𐑮𐑰𐑗 ·𐑝𐑻𐑗𐑵, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑤𐑴! 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑟 ·𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑼 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑮𐑨𐑚, 𐑯 𐑛𐑮𐑨𐑜𐑟 𐑳𐑕 𐑚𐑨𐑒; 𐑯 𐑣𐑽, 𐑜𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 ·𐑝𐑻𐑗𐑵, ·𐑤𐑰𐑴, 𐑩 𐑮𐑹𐑦𐑙 ·𐑤𐑲𐑩𐑯, 𐑤𐑲𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑭𐑔—𐑣𐑰 𐑜𐑦𐑝𐑟 𐑩 𐑓𐑿 𐑓𐑽𐑕 𐑚𐑲𐑑𐑕 𐑯 𐑕𐑻𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑨𐑚𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑷; 𐑢𐑰 𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑱𐑐, 𐑯 𐑣𐑱𐑤 ·𐑝𐑻𐑜𐑴, 𐑞 ·𐑝𐑻𐑡𐑦𐑯! 𐑞𐑨𐑑'𐑕 𐑬𐑼 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑤𐑳𐑝; 𐑢𐑰 𐑥𐑨𐑮𐑦 𐑯 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑦 𐑓 𐑲, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑐𐑪𐑐 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑟 ·𐑤𐑲𐑚𐑮𐑩, 𐑹 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑒𐑱𐑤𐑟—𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑢𐑱𐑛 𐑯 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑢𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑙; 𐑯 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑢𐑰 𐑸 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑕𐑨𐑛 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑, ·𐑤𐑹𐑛! 𐑣𐑬 𐑢𐑰 𐑕𐑳𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑡𐑳𐑥𐑐, 𐑨𐑟 ·𐑕𐑒𐑹𐑐𐑦𐑴, 𐑹 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑒𐑹𐑐𐑾𐑯, 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑳𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑮𐑽; 𐑢𐑰 𐑸 𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑢𐑵𐑯𐑛, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑢𐑨𐑙 𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑞 𐑨𐑮𐑴𐑟 𐑷𐑤 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛; ·𐑕𐑨𐑡𐑦𐑑𐑺𐑾𐑕, 𐑹 𐑞 ·𐑸𐑗𐑼, 𐑦𐑟 𐑩𐑥𐑿𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓. 𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑰 𐑐𐑤𐑳𐑒 𐑬𐑑 𐑞 𐑖𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑕, 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑩𐑕𐑲𐑛! 𐑣𐑽'𐑟 𐑞 𐑚𐑨𐑑𐑼𐑦𐑙-𐑮𐑨𐑥, ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑹𐑯𐑩𐑕, 𐑹 𐑞 ·𐑜𐑴𐑑; 𐑓𐑫𐑤 𐑑𐑦𐑤𐑑, 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑟 𐑮𐑳𐑖𐑦𐑙, 𐑯 𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑢𐑰 𐑸 𐑑𐑪𐑕𐑑; 𐑢𐑧𐑯 ·𐑩𐑒𐑢𐑺𐑾𐑕, 𐑹 𐑞 ·𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼-𐑚𐑺𐑼, 𐑐𐑹𐑟 𐑬𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑛𐑧𐑤𐑿𐑡 𐑯 𐑛𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑟 𐑳𐑕; 𐑯 𐑑 𐑢𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑳𐑐 𐑢𐑦𐑞 ·𐑐𐑲𐑕𐑰𐑟, 𐑹 𐑞 ·𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑟, 𐑢𐑰 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐. 𐑞𐑺'𐑟 𐑩 𐑕𐑻𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑯𐑬, 𐑮𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑲 𐑣𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑯 𐑜𐑴𐑟 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑦𐑑 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑘𐑽, 𐑯 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑟 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑦𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑩𐑤𐑲𐑝 𐑯 𐑣𐑸𐑑𐑦. 𐑡𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑰, 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑓𐑑 𐑞𐑺, 𐑢𐑰𐑤𐑟 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑑𐑶𐑤 𐑯 𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑚𐑩𐑤; 𐑯 𐑕𐑴, 𐑱𐑤𐑴 𐑣𐑽, 𐑛𐑳𐑟 𐑡𐑪𐑤𐑦 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚. 𐑴, 𐑡𐑪𐑤𐑦'𐑟 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑛 𐑓 𐑲! 𐑩𐑛𐑿, ·𐑛𐑳𐑚𐑤𐑵𐑯! 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑪𐑐; 𐑣𐑽 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑟 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 ·𐑒𐑦𐑙-·𐑐𐑴𐑕𐑑; 𐑛𐑪𐑡 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑑𐑮𐑲-𐑢𐑻𐑒𐑕, 𐑯𐑬, 𐑯 𐑤𐑧𐑑'𐑕 𐑣𐑽 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑣𐑰'𐑤 𐑣𐑨𐑓 𐑑 𐑕𐑱. 𐑞𐑺; 𐑣𐑰'𐑟 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑦𐑑; 𐑣𐑰'𐑤 𐑬𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦. 𐑕𐑴, 𐑕𐑴; 𐑣𐑰'𐑟 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑙.”</p>
    <p>“𐑲 𐑕𐑰 𐑯𐑳𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑽, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑝 𐑜𐑴𐑤𐑛, 𐑯 𐑣𐑵𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑮𐑱𐑟𐑩𐑟 𐑩 𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑪𐑙𐑟 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥. 𐑕𐑴, 𐑢𐑪𐑑'𐑕 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑕𐑑𐑺𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑? 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑻𐑔 𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑯 𐑛𐑪𐑤𐑼𐑟, 𐑞𐑨𐑑'𐑕 𐑑𐑮𐑵; 𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑑𐑵 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑞 𐑕𐑦𐑜𐑸, 𐑞𐑨𐑑'𐑕 𐑯𐑲𐑯 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑛 𐑯 𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑦 𐑕𐑦𐑜𐑸𐑟. 𐑲 𐑢𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑕𐑥𐑴𐑒 𐑛𐑻𐑑𐑦 𐑐𐑲𐑐𐑕 𐑤𐑲𐑒 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑲 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑕𐑦𐑜𐑸𐑟, 𐑯 𐑣𐑽'𐑟 𐑯𐑲𐑯 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑛 𐑯 𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑞𐑧𐑥; 𐑕𐑴 𐑣𐑽 𐑜𐑴𐑟 ·𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑓𐑑 𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑲 '𐑩𐑥 𐑬𐑑.”</p>
    <p>“𐑖𐑨𐑤 𐑲 𐑒𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑲𐑟 𐑹 𐑓𐑵𐑤𐑦𐑖, 𐑯𐑬; 𐑦𐑓 𐑦𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑮𐑾𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑲𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑓𐑵𐑤𐑦𐑖 𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑑 𐑦𐑑; 𐑘𐑧𐑑, 𐑦𐑓 𐑦𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑮𐑾𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑵𐑤𐑦𐑖, 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑩 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑢𐑲𐑟𐑦𐑖 𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑑 𐑦𐑑. 𐑚𐑳𐑑, 𐑩𐑝𐑭𐑕𐑑; 𐑣𐑽 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑟 𐑬𐑼 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑥𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑕𐑥𐑩𐑯—𐑞 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑣𐑻𐑕-𐑛𐑮𐑲𐑝𐑼, 𐑣𐑰 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑟, 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑣𐑰 𐑑𐑫𐑒 𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑰. 𐑣𐑰 𐑤𐑳𐑓𐑕 𐑳𐑐 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑞 𐑛𐑳𐑚𐑤𐑵𐑯; 𐑣𐑩𐑤𐑴, 𐑯 𐑜𐑴𐑟 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑; 𐑢𐑲, 𐑞𐑺'𐑟 𐑩 𐑣𐑹𐑕-𐑖𐑵 𐑯𐑱𐑤𐑛 𐑪𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑲𐑛; 𐑯 𐑯𐑬 𐑣𐑰'𐑟 𐑚𐑨𐑒 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯; 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑛𐑳𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑰𐑯? 𐑣𐑸𐑒! 𐑣𐑰'𐑟 𐑥𐑳𐑑𐑼𐑦𐑙—𐑝𐑶𐑕 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩𐑯 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑢𐑹𐑯-𐑬𐑑 𐑒𐑪𐑓𐑦-𐑥𐑦𐑤. 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑒 𐑽𐑟, 𐑯 𐑤𐑦𐑕𐑩𐑯!”</p>
    <p>“𐑦𐑓 𐑞 ·𐑢𐑲𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑚𐑰 𐑮𐑱𐑟𐑛, 𐑦𐑑 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑥𐑳𐑯𐑔 𐑯 𐑩 𐑛𐑱, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑕𐑲𐑯𐑟. 𐑲'𐑝 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑕𐑲𐑯𐑟, 𐑯 𐑯𐑴 𐑞𐑺 𐑥𐑸𐑒𐑕; 𐑞𐑱 𐑢𐑻 𐑑𐑷𐑑 𐑥𐑰 𐑑𐑵 𐑕𐑒𐑹 𐑘𐑽𐑟 𐑩𐑜𐑴, 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑒𐑴𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑣𐑱𐑜𐑦𐑯. 𐑯𐑬, 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑲𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑚𐑰? 𐑞 𐑣𐑹𐑕-𐑖𐑵 𐑕𐑲𐑯; 𐑓 𐑞𐑺 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟, 𐑮𐑲𐑑 𐑪𐑐𐑩𐑟𐑦𐑑 𐑞 𐑜𐑴𐑤𐑛. 𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑑'𐑕 𐑞 𐑣𐑹𐑕-𐑖𐑵 𐑕𐑲𐑯? 𐑞 𐑤𐑲𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑣𐑹𐑕-𐑖𐑵 𐑕𐑲𐑯—𐑞 𐑮𐑹𐑦𐑙 𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑝𐑬𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑲𐑩𐑯. 𐑖𐑦𐑐, 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑖𐑦𐑐! 𐑥𐑲 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑖𐑱𐑒𐑕 𐑑 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑝 𐑞𐑰.”</p>
    <p>“𐑞𐑺'𐑟 𐑩𐑯𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑮𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑯𐑬; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑑𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑. 𐑷𐑤 𐑕𐑹𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑒𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑝 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛, 𐑿 𐑕𐑰. 𐑛𐑪𐑡 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯! 𐑣𐑽 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑟 ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜—𐑷𐑤 𐑑𐑩𐑑𐑵𐑦𐑙—𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑕 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞 𐑕𐑲𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑟𐑴𐑛𐑦𐑨𐑒 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓. 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑧𐑟 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑚𐑩𐑤? 𐑨𐑟 𐑲 𐑤𐑦𐑝 𐑣𐑰'𐑟 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑺𐑦𐑙 𐑯𐑴𐑑𐑕; 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑔𐑲 𐑚𐑴𐑯; 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑕 𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑯 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑔𐑲, 𐑹 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑭𐑓, 𐑹 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑬𐑩𐑤𐑟, 𐑲 𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑴𐑟, 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑯 𐑑𐑷𐑒 ·𐑕𐑻𐑡𐑩𐑯'𐑟 ·𐑩𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑪𐑯𐑩𐑥𐑦 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑨𐑒 𐑒𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑦. 𐑯 𐑚𐑲 ·𐑡𐑴𐑝, 𐑣𐑰'𐑟 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑺 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑝𐑦𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑔𐑲—𐑲 𐑜𐑧𐑕 𐑦𐑑'𐑕 ·𐑕𐑨𐑡𐑦𐑑𐑺𐑾𐑕, 𐑹 𐑞 ·𐑸𐑗𐑼. 𐑯𐑴: 𐑣𐑰 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑯𐑴 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑑 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑝 𐑞 𐑛𐑳𐑚𐑤𐑵𐑯; 𐑣𐑰 𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑕 𐑦𐑑 𐑓 𐑩𐑯 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑳𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑪𐑓 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑒𐑦𐑙'𐑟 𐑑𐑮𐑴𐑟𐑼𐑟. 𐑚𐑳𐑑, 𐑩𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯! 𐑣𐑽 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑜𐑴𐑕𐑑-𐑛𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤, ·𐑓𐑧𐑛𐑩𐑤𐑩; 𐑑𐑱𐑤 𐑒𐑶𐑤𐑛 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑕𐑲𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑿𐑠𐑵𐑩𐑤, 𐑴𐑒𐑩𐑥 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑑𐑴𐑟 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑕 𐑨𐑟 𐑿𐑠𐑵𐑩𐑤. 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑛𐑳𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑱, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟? 𐑭, 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑥𐑱𐑒𐑕 𐑩 𐑕𐑲𐑯 𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑲𐑯 𐑯 𐑚𐑬𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓; 𐑞𐑺 𐑦𐑟 𐑩 𐑕𐑳𐑯 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑶𐑯—𐑓𐑲𐑼 𐑢𐑻𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑼, 𐑛𐑦𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑦𐑑. 𐑣𐑴! 𐑥𐑹 𐑯 𐑥𐑹. 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑱 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑟 ·𐑐𐑦𐑐—𐑐𐑫𐑼 𐑚𐑶! 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑛𐑲𐑛, 𐑹 𐑲; 𐑣𐑰'𐑟 𐑣𐑭𐑓 𐑣𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑑 𐑥𐑰. 𐑣𐑰 𐑑𐑵 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑷𐑤 𐑝 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑻𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑑𐑼𐑟—𐑥𐑲𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑵𐑛𐑩𐑛—𐑯 𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑯𐑬, 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑟 𐑑 𐑮𐑰𐑛, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑳𐑯𐑻𐑔𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑛𐑾𐑑 𐑓𐑱𐑕. 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑩𐑢𐑱 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯 𐑯 𐑣𐑽 𐑣𐑦𐑥. 𐑣𐑸𐑒!”</p>
    <p>“𐑲 𐑤𐑫𐑒, 𐑿 𐑤𐑫𐑒, 𐑣𐑰 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑕; 𐑢𐑰 𐑤𐑫𐑒, 𐑘𐑰 𐑤𐑫𐑒, 𐑞𐑱 𐑤𐑫𐑒.”</p>
    <p>“𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑥𐑲 𐑕𐑴𐑤, 𐑣𐑰'𐑟 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑛𐑦𐑦𐑙 ·𐑥𐑳𐑮𐑦'𐑟 ·𐑜𐑮𐑨𐑥𐑼! 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑮𐑵𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛, 𐑐𐑫𐑼 𐑓𐑧𐑤𐑴! 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑑'𐑕 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑧𐑟 𐑯𐑬—𐑣𐑦𐑕𐑑!”</p>
    <p>“𐑲 𐑤𐑫𐑒, 𐑿 𐑤𐑫𐑒, 𐑣𐑰 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑕; 𐑢𐑰 𐑤𐑫𐑒, 𐑘𐑰 𐑤𐑫𐑒, 𐑞𐑱 𐑤𐑫𐑒.”</p>
    <p>“𐑢𐑲, 𐑣𐑰'𐑟 𐑜𐑧𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑣𐑸𐑑—𐑣𐑦𐑕𐑑! 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯.”</p>
    <p>“𐑲 𐑤𐑫𐑒, 𐑿 𐑤𐑫𐑒, 𐑣𐑰 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑕; 𐑢𐑰 𐑤𐑫𐑒, 𐑘𐑰 𐑤𐑫𐑒, 𐑞𐑱 𐑤𐑫𐑒.”</p>
    <p>“𐑢𐑧𐑤, 𐑞𐑨𐑑'𐑕 𐑓𐑳𐑯𐑦.”</p>
    <p>“𐑯 𐑲, 𐑿, 𐑯 𐑣𐑰; 𐑯 𐑢𐑰, 𐑘𐑰, 𐑯 𐑞𐑱, 𐑸 𐑷𐑤 𐑚𐑨𐑑𐑕; 𐑯 𐑲'𐑥 𐑩 𐑒𐑮𐑴, 𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑲 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑩'𐑑𐑪𐑐 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑐𐑲𐑯 𐑑𐑮𐑰 𐑣𐑽. 𐑒𐑷! 𐑒𐑷! 𐑒𐑷! 𐑒𐑷! 𐑒𐑷! 𐑒𐑷! 𐑱𐑯𐑑 𐑲 𐑩 𐑒𐑮𐑴? 𐑯 𐑢𐑺'𐑟 𐑞 𐑕𐑒𐑺-𐑒𐑮𐑴? 𐑞𐑺 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟; 𐑑𐑵 𐑚𐑴𐑯𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑒 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑩 𐑐𐑺 𐑝 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑑𐑮𐑴𐑟𐑼𐑟, 𐑯 𐑑𐑵 𐑥𐑹 𐑐𐑴𐑒𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑝𐑟 𐑝 𐑩𐑯 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑡𐑨𐑒𐑩𐑑.”</p>
    <p>“𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑦𐑓 𐑣𐑰 𐑥𐑰𐑯𐑟 𐑥𐑰?—𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑦𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑦!—𐑐𐑫𐑼 𐑤𐑨𐑛!—𐑲 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑜𐑴 𐑣𐑨𐑙 𐑥𐑲𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓. 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑢𐑱, 𐑓 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑, 𐑲'𐑤 𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑑 ·𐑐𐑦𐑐'𐑕 𐑝𐑦𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑦. 𐑲 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑, 𐑓 𐑞𐑱 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑑𐑕; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑣𐑰'𐑟 𐑑𐑵 𐑒𐑮𐑱𐑟𐑦-𐑢𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑓 𐑥𐑲 𐑕𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑦. 𐑕𐑴, 𐑕𐑴, 𐑲 𐑤𐑰𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑥𐑳𐑑𐑼𐑦𐑙.”</p>
    <p>“𐑣𐑽'𐑟 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐'𐑕 𐑯𐑱𐑝𐑩𐑤, 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑛𐑳𐑚𐑤𐑵𐑯 𐑣𐑽, 𐑯 𐑞𐑱 𐑸 𐑷𐑤 𐑪𐑯 𐑓𐑲𐑼 𐑑 𐑳𐑯𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑵 𐑦𐑑. 𐑚𐑳𐑑, 𐑳𐑯𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑵 𐑘𐑹 𐑯𐑱𐑝𐑩𐑤, 𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑑'𐑕 𐑞 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑢𐑩𐑯𐑕? 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯, 𐑦𐑓 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑟 𐑣𐑽, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑳𐑜𐑤𐑦, 𐑑𐑵, 𐑓 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑷𐑑'𐑕 𐑯𐑱𐑤𐑛 𐑑 𐑞 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑩 𐑕𐑲𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑜𐑮𐑴 𐑛𐑧𐑕𐑐𐑼𐑩𐑑. 𐑣𐑭, 𐑣𐑭! 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚! 𐑞 ·𐑢𐑲𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤; 𐑣𐑰'𐑤 𐑯𐑱𐑤 𐑘𐑰! 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑦𐑟 𐑩 𐑐𐑲𐑯 𐑑𐑮𐑰. 𐑥𐑲 𐑓𐑭𐑞𐑼, 𐑦𐑯 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑑𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑦, 𐑒𐑳𐑑 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑩 𐑐𐑲𐑯 𐑑𐑮𐑰 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕, 𐑯 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑩 𐑕𐑦𐑤𐑝𐑼 𐑮𐑦𐑙 𐑜𐑮𐑴𐑯 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑦𐑑; 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑛𐑸𐑒𐑦'𐑟 𐑢𐑧𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑮𐑦𐑙. 𐑣𐑬 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑜𐑧𐑑 𐑞𐑺? 𐑯 𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑱'𐑤 𐑕𐑱 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑼𐑧𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞𐑱 𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑑 𐑓𐑦𐑖 𐑳𐑐 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑, 𐑯 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑩 𐑛𐑳𐑚𐑤𐑵𐑯 𐑤𐑪𐑡𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑦𐑑, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑚𐑧𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑶𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑓 𐑞 𐑖𐑨𐑜𐑦 𐑚𐑸𐑒. 𐑴, 𐑞 𐑜𐑴𐑤𐑛! 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑕, 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑕, 𐑜𐑴𐑤𐑛! 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑯 𐑥𐑲𐑟𐑼'𐑤 𐑣𐑹𐑛 𐑘𐑰 𐑕𐑵𐑯! ·𐑙𐑦𐑖! ·𐑙𐑦𐑖! 𐑜𐑪𐑛 𐑜𐑴𐑟 '𐑥𐑪𐑙 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛𐑟 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒𐑚𐑼𐑦𐑦𐑙. 𐑒𐑫𐑒! 𐑣𐑴, 𐑒𐑫𐑒! 𐑯 𐑒𐑫𐑒 𐑳𐑕! 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑦! 𐑣𐑱, 𐑣𐑱, 𐑣𐑱, 𐑣𐑱, 𐑣𐑱, ·𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑦, ·𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑦! 𐑯 𐑜𐑧𐑑 𐑘𐑹 𐑣𐑴-𐑒𐑱𐑒 𐑛𐑳𐑯!”</p>
  </body>
</html>
