<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Chapter 32</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="chapter-32" xml:lang="en-US">
      <h2 id="chapterheader-32">·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 32. ·𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑡𐑦.</h2>
    </div>
    <p>𐑷𐑤𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑦 𐑢𐑰 𐑸 𐑚𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑷𐑯𐑗𐑑 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑛𐑰𐑐; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑵𐑯 𐑢𐑰 𐑖𐑨𐑤 𐑚𐑰 𐑤𐑪𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑳𐑯𐑖𐑹𐑛, 𐑣𐑸𐑚𐑼𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑦𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑟. 𐑺 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑑 𐑐𐑭𐑕; 𐑺 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛'𐑟 𐑢𐑰𐑛𐑦 𐑣𐑳𐑤 𐑮𐑴𐑤𐑟 𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑚𐑸𐑯𐑩𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑣𐑳𐑤𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯; 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑬𐑑𐑕𐑧𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑑 𐑩𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑩 𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑼 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑑 𐑩 𐑔𐑳𐑮𐑴 𐑩𐑐𐑮𐑰𐑖𐑩𐑑𐑦𐑝 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑞 𐑥𐑹 𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑤 𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑒 𐑮𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑯 𐑩𐑤𐑵𐑠𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑕𐑹𐑑𐑕 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑸 𐑑 𐑓𐑪𐑤𐑴.</p>
    <p>𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑕𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑥𐑩𐑑𐑲𐑟𐑛 𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑦𐑚𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑮𐑷𐑛 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑩, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑲 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑯𐑬 𐑓𐑱𐑯 𐑐𐑫𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑿. 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑯𐑴 𐑰𐑟𐑦 𐑑𐑭𐑕𐑒. 𐑞 𐑒𐑤𐑨𐑕𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑗𐑵𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑩 𐑒𐑱𐑪𐑕, 𐑯𐑳𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑧𐑕 𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑽 𐑧𐑕𐑱𐑛. 𐑤𐑦𐑕𐑩𐑯 𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑯 𐑤𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑷𐑔𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑤𐑱𐑛 𐑛𐑬𐑯.</p>
    <p>“𐑯𐑴 𐑚𐑮𐑭𐑯𐑗 𐑝 ·𐑟𐑴𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑡𐑦 𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑴 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑪𐑤𐑝𐑛 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑛 ·𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑡𐑦,” 𐑕𐑧𐑟 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑕𐑒𐑹𐑟𐑚𐑦, ⸰𐑱𐑛 1820.</p>
    <p>“𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑥𐑲 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑢𐑻 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑲 𐑐𐑬𐑼, 𐑑 𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑼 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑼𐑦 𐑨𐑟 𐑑 𐑞 𐑑𐑮𐑵 𐑥𐑧𐑔𐑩𐑛 𐑝 𐑛𐑦𐑝𐑲𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑱𐑖𐑩 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑜𐑮𐑵𐑐𐑕 𐑯 𐑓𐑨𐑥𐑤𐑦𐑟. * * * 𐑳𐑑𐑼 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑓𐑿𐑠𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑕 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑾𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑤” (𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 𐑢𐑱𐑤), 𐑕𐑧𐑟 ·𐑕𐑻𐑡𐑩𐑯 ·𐑚𐑦𐑱𐑤, ⸰𐑱𐑛 1839.</p>
    <p>“𐑳𐑯𐑓𐑦𐑑𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑑 𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑿 𐑬𐑼 𐑮𐑰𐑕𐑻𐑗 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑳𐑯𐑓𐑨𐑞𐑩𐑥𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼𐑟.” “𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑝𐑱𐑤 𐑒𐑳𐑝𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑼 𐑯𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑡 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑱𐑖𐑩.” “𐑩 𐑓𐑰𐑤𐑛 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑵𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑔𐑹𐑯𐑟.” “𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑰𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑻𐑝 𐑑 𐑑𐑹𐑗𐑼 𐑳𐑕 𐑯𐑨𐑗𐑼𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑕.”</p>
    <p>𐑞𐑳𐑕 𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑒 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 ·𐑒𐑿𐑝𐑽, 𐑯 ·𐑡𐑪𐑯 ·𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑼, 𐑯 ·𐑤𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑯, 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑟𐑴𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑡𐑦 𐑯 𐑩𐑯𐑨𐑑𐑩𐑥𐑦. 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑞𐑩𐑤𐑧𐑕, 𐑞𐑴 𐑝 𐑮𐑾𐑤 𐑯𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑡 𐑞𐑺 𐑚𐑰 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤, 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑝 𐑚𐑫𐑒𐑕 𐑞𐑺 𐑸 𐑩 𐑐𐑤𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑦; 𐑯 𐑕𐑴 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤 𐑛𐑦𐑜𐑮𐑰, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 ·𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑡𐑦, 𐑹 𐑞 𐑕𐑲𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑝 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟. 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑸 𐑞 𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤 𐑯 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑, 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑯 𐑯𐑿, 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑯 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑣𐑵 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑸𐑡 𐑹 𐑦𐑯 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤, 𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤. 𐑮𐑳𐑯 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑩 𐑓𐑿:—𐑞 ·𐑷𐑔𐑼𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑚𐑲𐑚𐑩𐑤; ·𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑤; ·𐑐𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑦; ·𐑷𐑤𐑛𐑮𐑴𐑝𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦; ·𐑕𐑻 ·𐑑𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑕 ·𐑚𐑮𐑬𐑯; ·𐑡𐑦𐑟𐑯𐑼; ·𐑮𐑱; ·𐑤𐑦𐑯𐑾𐑕; ·𐑮𐑪𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑤𐑩𐑖𐑩𐑕; ·𐑢𐑦𐑤𐑴𐑚𐑦; ·𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑯; ·𐑸𐑑𐑩𐑛𐑦; ·𐑕𐑦𐑚𐑨𐑤𐑑; ·𐑚𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑩𐑯; ·𐑥𐑸𐑑𐑦𐑯; ·𐑤𐑱𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑛; Bonneterre; ·𐑛𐑧𐑥𐑸𐑱; ·𐑚𐑨𐑮𐑩𐑯 ·𐑒𐑿𐑝𐑽; ·𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑼𐑦𐑒 ·𐑒𐑿𐑝𐑽; ·𐑡𐑪𐑯 ·𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑼; ·𐑴𐑢𐑧𐑯; ·𐑕𐑒𐑹𐑟𐑚𐑦; ·𐑚𐑦𐑱𐑤; ·𐑚𐑧𐑯𐑩𐑑; J. ·𐑮𐑪𐑕 ·𐑚𐑮𐑬𐑯; 𐑞 ·𐑷𐑔𐑼 𐑝 ·𐑥𐑦𐑮𐑾𐑥 ·𐑒𐑪𐑓𐑦𐑯; ·𐑴𐑤𐑥𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑛; 𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑮𐑧𐑝 T. ·𐑗𐑰𐑝𐑼. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑳𐑤𐑑𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑑 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑤𐑲𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑐𐑻𐑐𐑩𐑕 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑯, 𐑞 𐑩𐑚𐑳𐑝 𐑕𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑕 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑖𐑴.</p>
    <p>𐑝 𐑞 𐑯𐑱𐑥𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑤𐑦𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑷𐑔𐑼𐑟, 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑓𐑪𐑤𐑴𐑦𐑙 ·𐑴𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑕𐑷 𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟; 𐑯 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑮𐑾𐑤 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑓𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽 𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑥𐑩𐑯. 𐑲 𐑥𐑰𐑯 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑕𐑒𐑹𐑟𐑚𐑦. 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑧𐑐𐑼𐑩𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑚𐑡𐑧𐑒𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑯𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑹 𐑮𐑲𐑑-𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑚𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑷𐑔𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑦. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 ·𐑕𐑒𐑹𐑟𐑚𐑦 𐑯𐑿 𐑯𐑳𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑯 𐑕𐑧𐑟 𐑯𐑳𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑺𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑞 ·𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑯𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑦𐑟 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑳𐑯𐑢𐑻𐑞𐑦 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑙. 𐑯 𐑣𐑽 𐑚𐑰 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑧𐑛, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑯𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑦𐑟 𐑩𐑯 𐑿𐑟𐑻𐑐𐑼 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑔𐑮𐑴𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑰𐑟. 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑚𐑲 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑥𐑰𐑯𐑟 𐑞 𐑤𐑸𐑡𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟. 𐑘𐑧𐑑, 𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑞 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑤𐑱𐑥𐑟, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑢𐑦𐑗, 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑕𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦 𐑘𐑽𐑟 𐑚𐑨𐑒, 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑞 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑓𐑨𐑚𐑿𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑹 𐑳𐑑𐑼𐑤𐑦 𐑳𐑯𐑯𐑴𐑯 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥-𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑛𐑱 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑓𐑿 𐑕𐑲𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒 𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑮𐑰𐑑𐑕 𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑐𐑹𐑑𐑕; 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑿𐑟𐑻𐑐𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑢𐑱 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑰𐑑. 𐑮𐑧𐑓𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑑 𐑯𐑽𐑤𐑦 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑒 𐑩𐑤𐑵𐑠𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑐𐑴𐑩𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑐𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑛𐑱𐑟, 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑕𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑕𐑓𐑲 𐑿 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑯𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑮𐑲𐑝𐑩𐑤, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑞 𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑸𐑒 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑰𐑟. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑓 𐑩 𐑯𐑿 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑒𐑤𐑩𐑥𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯. 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑦𐑟 ·𐑗𐑸𐑦𐑙 ·𐑒𐑮𐑪𐑕; 𐑣𐑽 𐑘𐑰! 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑐𐑰𐑐𐑩𐑤 𐑷𐑤,—𐑞 ·𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑯𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑦𐑐𐑴𐑟𐑛,—𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑯𐑬 𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑩𐑔!</p>
    <p>𐑞𐑺 𐑸 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑑𐑵 𐑚𐑫𐑒𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑐𐑫𐑑 𐑞 𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑿, 𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑑𐑲𐑥, 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑴𐑑𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑜𐑮𐑰 𐑕𐑩𐑒𐑕𐑰𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑩𐑑𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑑. 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑚𐑫𐑒𐑕 𐑸 ·𐑚𐑦𐑱𐑤'𐑟 𐑯 ·𐑚𐑧𐑯𐑩𐑑'𐑕; 𐑚𐑴𐑔 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑕𐑻𐑡𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑑 ·𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑤𐑦𐑖 ·𐑕𐑬𐑔-·𐑕𐑰 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑕, 𐑯 𐑚𐑴𐑔 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑨𐑒𐑑 𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑲𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑥𐑧𐑯. 𐑞 𐑼𐑦𐑡𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑼 𐑑𐑳𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑝𐑪𐑤𐑿𐑥𐑟 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑧𐑕𐑦𐑕𐑺𐑦𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑴 𐑓𐑸 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑜𐑴𐑟, 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑝 𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑦, 𐑞𐑴 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑕𐑲𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑖𐑩𐑯. 𐑨𐑟 𐑘𐑧𐑑, 𐑣𐑬𐑧𐑝𐑼, 𐑞 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑕𐑲𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒 𐑹 𐑐𐑴𐑧𐑑𐑦𐑒, 𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑰𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑼𐑩𐑗𐑼. 𐑓𐑸 𐑩𐑚𐑳𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟, 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑟 𐑩𐑯 𐑳𐑯𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑤𐑲𐑓.</p>
    <p>𐑯𐑬 𐑞 𐑝𐑺𐑾𐑕 𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑖𐑰𐑟 𐑝 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑯𐑰𐑛 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑐𐑪𐑐𐑿𐑤𐑼 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑣𐑧𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑝 𐑒𐑤𐑨𐑕𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑦𐑓 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑯 𐑰𐑟𐑦 𐑬𐑑𐑤𐑲𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑓 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑, 𐑣𐑽𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑓𐑦𐑤𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑛𐑦𐑐𐑸𐑑𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑚𐑲 𐑕𐑳𐑚𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑢𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑤𐑱𐑚𐑼𐑼𐑟. 𐑨𐑟 𐑯𐑴 𐑚𐑧𐑑𐑼 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑩𐑛𐑝𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑑 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛, 𐑲 𐑣𐑽𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑪𐑓𐑼 𐑥𐑲 𐑴𐑯 𐑐𐑫𐑼 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑟. 𐑲 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑥𐑦𐑕 𐑯𐑳𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑰𐑑; 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑪𐑟 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑣𐑿𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑰𐑑, 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑓 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑮𐑰𐑟𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑨𐑤𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑰 𐑓𐑷𐑤𐑑𐑦. 𐑲 𐑖𐑨𐑤 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑩 𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑿𐑑 𐑨𐑯𐑩𐑑𐑪𐑥𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑝𐑺𐑾𐑕 𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑖𐑰𐑟, 𐑹—𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑰𐑕𐑑—𐑑 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑝 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑖𐑩𐑯. 𐑥𐑲 𐑪𐑚𐑡𐑧𐑒𐑑 𐑣𐑽 𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑦 𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑡𐑧𐑒𐑑 𐑞 𐑛𐑮𐑭𐑓𐑑 𐑝 𐑩 𐑕𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑥𐑩𐑑𐑲𐑟𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 ·𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑡𐑦. 𐑲 𐑨𐑥 𐑞 𐑸𐑒𐑦𐑑𐑧𐑒𐑑, 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑼.</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑩 𐑐𐑪𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑩𐑕 𐑑𐑭𐑕𐑒; 𐑯𐑴 𐑹𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑼𐑦 𐑤𐑧𐑑𐑼-𐑕𐑹𐑑𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑴𐑕𐑑-·𐑪𐑓𐑦𐑕 𐑦𐑟 𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑩𐑤 𐑑 𐑦𐑑. 𐑑 𐑜𐑮𐑴𐑐 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑚𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑥 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑰 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑞𐑧𐑥; 𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑢𐑳𐑯'𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑞 𐑳𐑯𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟, 𐑮𐑦𐑚𐑟, 𐑯 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑐𐑧𐑤𐑝𐑦𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛; 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑦𐑟 𐑩 𐑓𐑽𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑔𐑦𐑙. 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑨𐑥 𐑲 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑲 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑧𐑕𐑱 𐑑 𐑣𐑫𐑒 𐑞 𐑯𐑴𐑟 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯! 𐑞 𐑷𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑑𐑷𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑡𐑴𐑚 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑩𐑐𐑷𐑤 𐑥𐑰. 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑣𐑰 (𐑞 𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯) 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑩 𐑒𐑳𐑝𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑰? 𐑚𐑦𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑐 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑦𐑟 𐑝𐑱𐑯! 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑕𐑢𐑨𐑥 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑤𐑲𐑚𐑮𐑺𐑦𐑟 𐑯 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑛 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟; 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑑 𐑛𐑵 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑝𐑦𐑟𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟; 𐑲 𐑨𐑥 𐑦𐑯 𐑻𐑯𐑩𐑕𐑑; 𐑯 𐑲 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑑𐑮𐑲. 𐑞𐑺 𐑸 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑼𐑦𐑟 𐑑 𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑩𐑤.</p>
    <p>𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑: 𐑞 𐑳𐑯𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯, 𐑳𐑯𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑕𐑲𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑝 ·𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑡𐑦 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑝𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑚𐑿𐑤 𐑩𐑑𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑓𐑨𐑒𐑑, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑒𐑢𐑹𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑟 𐑩 𐑥𐑵𐑑 𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑 𐑢𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑚𐑰 𐑩 𐑓𐑦𐑖. 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 ·𐑕𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑥 𐑝 ·𐑯𐑱𐑗𐑼, ⸰𐑱𐑛 1776, ·𐑤𐑦𐑯𐑾𐑕 𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑺𐑟, “𐑲 𐑣𐑽𐑚𐑲 𐑕𐑧𐑐𐑼𐑩𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑓𐑦𐑖.” 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑝 𐑥𐑲 𐑴𐑯 𐑯𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑡, 𐑲 𐑯𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑑 𐑞 𐑘𐑽 1850, 𐑖𐑸𐑒𐑕 𐑯 𐑖𐑨𐑛, ·𐑱𐑤𐑵𐑦𐑝𐑟 𐑯 𐑣𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑙, 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 ·𐑤𐑦𐑯𐑾𐑕'𐑩𐑟 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑕 𐑰𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑑, 𐑢𐑻 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑛𐑦𐑝𐑲𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑐𐑩𐑟𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑕𐑰𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 ·𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯.</p>
    <p>𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑗 ·𐑤𐑦𐑯𐑾𐑕 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑓𐑱𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑖𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼𐑟, 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑑𐑕 𐑨𐑟 𐑓𐑪𐑤𐑴𐑟: “𐑪𐑯 𐑩𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑹𐑥 𐑚𐑲𐑤𐑴𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑼 𐑣𐑸𐑑, 𐑞𐑺 𐑤𐑳𐑙𐑟, 𐑞𐑺 𐑥𐑵𐑝𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑲𐑤𐑦𐑛𐑟, 𐑞𐑺 𐑣𐑪𐑤𐑴 𐑽𐑟, 𐑐𐑰𐑯𐑩𐑥 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑥 𐑓𐑧𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑭𐑥 𐑥𐑨𐑥𐑦𐑕 𐑤𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑥,” 𐑯 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑩𐑤𐑦, “𐑧𐑒𐑕 𐑤𐑧𐑡 𐑯𐑱𐑗𐑼𐑦 𐑡𐑻𐑦 meritoque.” 𐑲 𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑥𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑑 𐑥𐑲 𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑟 ·𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑾𐑯 ·𐑥𐑱𐑕𐑦 𐑯 ·𐑗𐑸𐑤𐑦 ·𐑒𐑪𐑓𐑦𐑯, 𐑝 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑, 𐑚𐑴𐑔 𐑥𐑧𐑕𐑥𐑱𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑥𐑲𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡, 𐑯 𐑞𐑱 𐑿𐑯𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑩𐑐𐑦𐑯𐑘𐑩𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑮𐑰𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑕𐑧𐑑 𐑓𐑹𐑔 𐑢𐑻 𐑷𐑤𐑑𐑩𐑜𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑑. ·𐑗𐑸𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑓𐑱𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑞𐑱 𐑢𐑻 𐑣𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑳𐑜.</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑰 𐑦𐑑 𐑯𐑴𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑, 𐑢𐑱𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑷𐑤 𐑸𐑜𐑿𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑, 𐑲 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑞 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑓𐑨𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑜𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑦𐑟 𐑩 𐑓𐑦𐑖, 𐑯 𐑒𐑷𐑤 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑦 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩 𐑑 𐑚𐑨𐑒 𐑥𐑰. 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑓𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑛, 𐑞 𐑯𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑 𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑 𐑦𐑟, 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑑 𐑛𐑳𐑟 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑼 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑓𐑦𐑖. 𐑩𐑚𐑳𐑝, ·𐑤𐑦𐑯𐑾𐑕 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑜𐑦𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑿 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑥𐑟. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑚𐑮𐑰𐑓, 𐑞𐑱 𐑸 𐑞𐑰𐑟: 𐑤𐑳𐑙𐑟 𐑯 𐑢𐑹𐑥 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑛; 𐑢𐑺𐑨𐑟, 𐑷𐑤 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑓𐑦𐑖 𐑸 𐑤𐑳𐑙𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑯 𐑒𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑛𐑩𐑛.</p>
    <p>𐑯𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑: 𐑣𐑬 𐑖𐑨𐑤 𐑢𐑰 𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑲𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑚𐑲 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑪𐑚𐑝𐑾𐑕 𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑯𐑩𐑤𐑟, 𐑕𐑴 𐑨𐑟 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑑 𐑤𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑓 𐑷𐑤 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑑 𐑒𐑳𐑥? 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑖𐑹𐑑, 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑦𐑟 <i>𐑩 𐑕𐑐𐑬𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑦𐑖 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑣𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑑𐑱𐑤</i>. 𐑞𐑺 𐑿 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑥. 𐑣𐑬𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑛𐑧𐑓𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑳𐑤𐑑 𐑝 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑥𐑧𐑛𐑦𐑑𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯. 𐑩 𐑢𐑷𐑤𐑮𐑩𐑕 𐑕𐑐𐑬𐑑𐑕 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑷𐑤𐑮𐑩𐑕 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑩 𐑓𐑦𐑖, 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑪𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑟 𐑨𐑥𐑓𐑦𐑚𐑾𐑕. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑑𐑻𐑥 𐑝 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑓𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑥𐑹 𐑒𐑴𐑡𐑩𐑯𐑑, 𐑨𐑟 𐑒𐑳𐑐𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑. 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑯𐑴𐑑𐑦𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑓𐑦𐑖 𐑓𐑩𐑥𐑦𐑤𐑽 𐑑 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑩 𐑓𐑤𐑨𐑑, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 𐑝𐑻𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤, 𐑹 𐑳𐑐-𐑯-𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑑𐑱𐑤. 𐑢𐑺𐑨𐑟, 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑕𐑐𐑬𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑦𐑖 𐑞 𐑑𐑱𐑤, 𐑞𐑴 𐑦𐑑 𐑥𐑱 𐑚𐑰 𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑤𐑼𐑤𐑦 𐑖𐑱𐑐𐑑, 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑺𐑾𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑕𐑿𐑥𐑟 𐑩 𐑣𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑐𐑩𐑟𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯.</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑩𐑚𐑳𐑝 𐑛𐑧𐑓𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑦𐑟, 𐑲 𐑛𐑵 𐑚𐑲 𐑯𐑴 𐑥𐑰𐑯𐑟 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑒𐑤𐑵𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑒 𐑚𐑮𐑳𐑞𐑼𐑣𐑫𐑛 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑕𐑰 𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑗𐑼 𐑣𐑦𐑞𐑼𐑑𐑵 𐑲𐑛𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑓𐑲𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑚𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑛 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑𐑼𐑟; 𐑯𐑹, 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛, 𐑤𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑦𐑑 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑓𐑦𐑖 𐑣𐑦𐑞𐑼𐑑𐑵 𐑷𐑔𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑑𐑦𐑝𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑸𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑨𐑟 𐑱𐑤𐑾𐑯.* 𐑣𐑧𐑯𐑕, 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤𐑼, 𐑕𐑐𐑬𐑑𐑦𐑙, 𐑯 𐑣𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑑𐑱𐑤𐑛 𐑓𐑦𐑖 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑵𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑜𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛-𐑐𐑤𐑨𐑯 𐑝 ·𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑡𐑦. 𐑯𐑬, 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑛𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑠𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑲𐑼 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑣𐑴𐑕𐑑.</p>
    <p>*𐑲 𐑨𐑥 𐑩𐑢𐑺 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑑 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑑𐑲𐑥, 𐑞 𐑓𐑦𐑖 𐑕𐑑𐑲𐑤𐑛 ·𐑤𐑭𐑥𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑟 𐑯 ·𐑛𐑵𐑜𐑪𐑙𐑟 (·𐑐𐑦𐑜-𐑓𐑦𐑖 𐑯 ·𐑕𐑬-𐑓𐑦𐑖 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑪𐑓𐑦𐑯𐑟 𐑝 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑) 𐑸 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑵𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑯𐑨𐑗𐑼𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑕 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑐𐑦𐑜-𐑓𐑦𐑖 𐑸 𐑩 𐑯𐑶𐑟𐑦, 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑧𐑑, 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑻𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑬𐑞𐑟 𐑝 𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑼𐑟, 𐑯 𐑓𐑰𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑯 𐑢𐑧𐑑 𐑣𐑱, 𐑯 𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑱 𐑛𐑵 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑬𐑑, 𐑲 𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑲 𐑞𐑺 𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑛𐑧𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟; 𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑺 𐑐𐑭𐑕𐑐𐑹𐑑𐑕 𐑑 𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑦𐑙𐑛𐑩𐑥 𐑝 ·𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑡𐑦.</p>
    <p>𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑: 𐑩𐑒𐑹𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑜𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛 𐑲 𐑛𐑦𐑝𐑲𐑛 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑥𐑼𐑦 ·𐑚𐑫𐑒𐑕 (𐑕𐑳𐑚𐑛𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑟𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 ·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼𐑟), 𐑯 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑖𐑨𐑤 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑣𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑷𐑤, 𐑚𐑴𐑔 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤 𐑯 𐑤𐑸𐑡.</p>
    <p>𐑲. 𐑞 ·𐑓𐑴𐑤𐑦𐑴 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤; II. 𐑞 ·𐑪𐑒𐑑𐑱𐑝𐑴 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤; III. 𐑞 ·𐑛𐑘𐑵𐑴𐑛𐑧𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑤 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤.</p>
    <p>𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑑𐑲𐑐 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑓𐑴𐑤𐑦𐑴 𐑲 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑞 <i>·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤</i>; 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑪𐑒𐑑𐑱𐑝𐑴, 𐑞 <i>·𐑜𐑮𐑨𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑕</i>; 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑛𐑘𐑵𐑴𐑛𐑧𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑤, 𐑞 <i>·𐑐𐑹𐑐𐑩𐑕</i>.</p>
    <p>·𐑓𐑴𐑤𐑦𐑴𐑟. 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑲 𐑣𐑽 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑵𐑛 𐑞 𐑓𐑪𐑤𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼𐑟:—𐑲. 𐑞 <i>·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤</i>; II. 𐑞 <i>·𐑮𐑲𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤</i>; III. 𐑞 <i>·𐑓𐑦𐑯-𐑚𐑨𐑒 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤</i>; IV. 𐑞 <i>·𐑣𐑳𐑥𐑐-𐑚𐑨𐑒𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤</i>; V. 𐑞 <i>·𐑮𐑱𐑟𐑼 𐑚𐑨𐑒 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤</i>; VI. 𐑞 <i>·𐑕𐑳𐑤𐑓𐑼 ·𐑚𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑥 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤</i>.</p>
    <p>·𐑚𐑫𐑒 𐑲. (<i>𐑓𐑴𐑤𐑦𐑴</i>), ·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 𐑲. (<i>𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤</i>).—𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑞 ·𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑤𐑦𐑖 𐑝 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑝𐑱𐑜𐑤𐑦 𐑯𐑴𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 ·𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑓𐑦𐑟𐑩𐑑𐑼 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑨𐑯𐑝𐑦𐑤 ·𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑 ·𐑒𐑨𐑖𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑯𐑗, 𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑪𐑑𐑕𐑓𐑦𐑖 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑡𐑻𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑟, 𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑥𐑨𐑒𐑮𐑴𐑕𐑧𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑤𐑪𐑙 ·𐑢𐑻𐑛𐑟. 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑟, 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑 𐑛𐑬𐑑, 𐑞 𐑤𐑸𐑡𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑣𐑨𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑜𐑤𐑴𐑚; 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑼; 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑩𐑡𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑦𐑯 𐑨𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑑; 𐑯 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑤𐑦, 𐑚𐑲 𐑓𐑸 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑝𐑨𐑤𐑿𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑻𐑕; 𐑣𐑰 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑗𐑼 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑝𐑨𐑤𐑿𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑳𐑚𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕, 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥𐑩𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑦, 𐑦𐑟 𐑩𐑚𐑑𐑱𐑯𐑛. 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑦𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑤, 𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑟, 𐑚𐑰 𐑦𐑯𐑤𐑸𐑡𐑛 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯. 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑗𐑰𐑓𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑱𐑥 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑲 𐑯𐑬 𐑣𐑨𐑓 𐑑 𐑛𐑵. 𐑓𐑦𐑤𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑡𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑼𐑛, 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑩𐑚𐑕𐑻𐑛. 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑗𐑼𐑦𐑟 𐑩𐑜𐑴, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑦 𐑳𐑯𐑯𐑴𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑐𐑼 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑡𐑵𐑨𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑦, 𐑯 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑶𐑤 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑨𐑒𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑚𐑑𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑓𐑦𐑖; 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑛𐑱𐑟 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥𐑩𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑦, 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑕𐑰𐑥, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑐𐑪𐑐𐑿𐑤𐑼𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑛𐑦𐑮𐑲𐑝𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑩 𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑗𐑼 𐑲𐑛𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑯𐑴𐑯 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 ·𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑯𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑹 ·𐑮𐑲𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤. 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑲𐑛𐑾 𐑷𐑤𐑕𐑴, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥𐑩𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑦 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑿𐑥𐑼 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑯𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑦𐑤𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑛 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑼𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑟. 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟, 𐑷𐑤𐑕𐑴, 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥𐑩𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑦 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑰𐑛𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑒𐑺𐑕, 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑿𐑟𐑛 𐑓 𐑤𐑲𐑑, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑨𐑟 𐑩𐑯 𐑶𐑯𐑑𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑯 𐑥𐑧𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑. 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑛𐑮𐑳𐑜𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑕 𐑨𐑟 𐑿 𐑯𐑬𐑩𐑛𐑱𐑟 𐑚𐑲 𐑩𐑯 𐑬𐑯𐑕 𐑝 𐑮𐑵𐑚𐑸𐑚. 𐑢𐑧𐑯, 𐑨𐑟 𐑲 𐑩𐑐𐑲𐑯, 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑹𐑕 𐑝 𐑑𐑲𐑥, 𐑞 𐑑𐑮𐑵 𐑯𐑱𐑗𐑼 𐑝 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥𐑩𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑦 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑯𐑴𐑯, 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑼𐑦𐑡𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑯𐑱𐑥 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑛𐑰𐑤𐑼𐑟; 𐑯𐑴 𐑛𐑬𐑑 𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑣𐑭𐑯𐑕 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑝𐑨𐑤𐑿 𐑚𐑲 𐑩 𐑯𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑕𐑴 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑕𐑒𐑺𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑦. 𐑯 𐑕𐑴 𐑞 𐑨𐑐𐑩𐑤𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑚𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑛 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥𐑩𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑦 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑮𐑾𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑮𐑲𐑝𐑛.</p>
    <p>·𐑚𐑫𐑒 𐑲. (<i>𐑓𐑴𐑤𐑦𐑴</i>), ·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 II. (<i>𐑮𐑲𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤</i>).—𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑞 𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯𐑟, 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑮𐑧𐑜𐑿𐑤𐑼𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑥𐑨𐑯. 𐑦𐑑 𐑘𐑰𐑤𐑛𐑟 𐑞 𐑸𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑯𐑴𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑚𐑴𐑯 𐑹 𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑰𐑯; 𐑯 𐑞 𐑶𐑤 𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑯𐑴𐑯 𐑨𐑟 “𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑶𐑤,” 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑽𐑽 𐑸𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑻𐑕. 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑞 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑧𐑟𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑓𐑪𐑤𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑑𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑟: 𐑞 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤; 𐑞 ·𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑯𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤; 𐑞 ·𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤; 𐑞 ·𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤; 𐑞 ·𐑑𐑮𐑵 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤; 𐑞 ·𐑮𐑲𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤. 𐑞𐑺 𐑦𐑟 𐑩 𐑛𐑰𐑤 𐑝 𐑩𐑚𐑕𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑲𐑛𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑖𐑰𐑟 𐑞𐑳𐑕 𐑥𐑳𐑤𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑲𐑟𐑛. 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑲 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑵𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑧𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑖𐑰𐑟 𐑝 𐑥𐑲 ·𐑓𐑴𐑤𐑦𐑴𐑟? 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 ·𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 ·𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑕𐑰𐑑𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑤𐑦𐑖 𐑯𐑨𐑗𐑼𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑕; 𐑞 ·𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑯𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑤𐑦𐑖 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯; 𐑞 ·𐑚𐑱𐑤𐑰𐑯 ·𐑹𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑺 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑯𐑗 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯; 𐑞 ·𐑜𐑮𐑬𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟 ·𐑢𐑷𐑤𐑓𐑦𐑖 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑢𐑰𐑛𐑟. 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑓 𐑥𐑹 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑑𐑵 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑗𐑼𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 ·𐑛𐑳𐑗 𐑯 ·𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑤𐑦𐑖 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑸𐑒𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑕𐑰𐑟; 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑞 ·𐑩𐑥𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑿𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑾𐑯 𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑚𐑮𐑩𐑟𐑦𐑤 ·𐑚𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑕, 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑯𐑹' ·𐑢𐑧𐑕𐑑 ·𐑒𐑴𐑕𐑑, 𐑯 𐑝𐑺𐑾𐑕 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑐𐑸𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛, 𐑛𐑧𐑟𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞𐑧𐑥 ·𐑮𐑲𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 ·𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑟𐑦𐑙 ·𐑜𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑟.</p>
    <p>𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑕𐑰 𐑩 𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑢𐑰𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑯𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑤𐑦𐑖 𐑯 𐑞 𐑮𐑲𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑩𐑥𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑟. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑱 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑲𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑜𐑮𐑰 𐑦𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑺 𐑜𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑓𐑰𐑗𐑼𐑟; 𐑯𐑹 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑺 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑩 𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑩𐑤 𐑛𐑦𐑑𐑻𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑑 𐑓𐑨𐑒𐑑 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑑 𐑜𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑩 𐑮𐑨𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯. 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑲 𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑕𐑳𐑚𐑛𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑠𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑚𐑱𐑕𐑑 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑵𐑕𐑦𐑝 𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑛𐑦𐑐𐑸𐑑𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑯𐑨𐑗𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑕𐑴 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑑. 𐑞 𐑮𐑲𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑚𐑰 𐑧𐑤𐑕𐑢𐑺 𐑑𐑮𐑰𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑝 𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑤𐑧𐑙𐑔, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑮𐑧𐑓𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑑 𐑦𐑤𐑵𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 𐑢𐑱𐑤.</p>
    <p>·𐑚𐑫𐑒 𐑲. (<i>𐑓𐑴𐑤𐑦𐑴</i>), ·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 III. (<i>𐑓𐑦𐑯-𐑚𐑨𐑒</i>).—𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑲 𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑩 𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑼 𐑢𐑦𐑗, 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑝𐑺𐑾𐑕 𐑯𐑱𐑥𐑟 𐑝 ·𐑓𐑦𐑯-𐑚𐑨𐑒, ·𐑑𐑷𐑤-·𐑕𐑐𐑬𐑑, 𐑯 ·𐑤𐑪𐑙-·𐑡𐑪𐑯, 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑕𐑰𐑯 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑕𐑰 𐑯 𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑣𐑵𐑟 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑡𐑧𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑴 𐑪𐑓𐑩𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑐𐑨𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑡𐑼𐑟 𐑒𐑮𐑪𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑞 ·𐑩𐑑𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑒, 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑯𐑿 ·𐑘𐑹𐑒 𐑐𐑨𐑒𐑩𐑑-𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑒𐑕. 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑤𐑧𐑙𐑔 𐑣𐑰 𐑩𐑑𐑱𐑯𐑟, 𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑰𐑯, 𐑞 ·𐑓𐑦𐑯-𐑚𐑨𐑒 𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑧𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑞 𐑮𐑲𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑝 𐑩 𐑤𐑧𐑕 𐑐𐑹𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑜𐑻𐑔, 𐑯 𐑩 𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑼 𐑒𐑳𐑤𐑼, 𐑩𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑝. 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑤𐑦𐑐𐑕 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑩 𐑒𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤-𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑨𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑑, 𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑑𐑢𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙, 𐑕𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑟 𐑝 𐑤𐑸𐑡 𐑮𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑟. 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑜𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑢𐑦𐑖𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑰𐑗𐑼, 𐑞 𐑓𐑦𐑯, 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑣𐑰 𐑛𐑦𐑮𐑲𐑝𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑱𐑥, 𐑦𐑟 𐑪𐑓𐑩𐑯 𐑩 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑩𐑕 𐑪𐑚𐑡𐑧𐑒𐑑. 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑓𐑦𐑯 𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑹 𐑓𐑹 𐑓𐑰𐑑 𐑤𐑪𐑙, 𐑜𐑮𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑝𐑻𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑨𐑒, 𐑝 𐑩𐑯 𐑨𐑙𐑜𐑿𐑤𐑼 𐑖𐑱𐑐, 𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑖𐑸𐑐 𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑧𐑯𐑛. 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑓 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑗𐑼 𐑚𐑰 𐑝𐑦𐑟𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤, 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑲𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑓𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑤, 𐑨𐑑 𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟, 𐑚𐑰 𐑕𐑰𐑯 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑡𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑕𐑻𐑓𐑦𐑕. 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑰 𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑪𐑛𐑼𐑩𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑭𐑥, 𐑯 𐑕𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑥𐑸𐑒𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑕𐑓𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑩𐑤𐑟, 𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑯𐑴𐑥𐑩𐑯-𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑓𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑳𐑐 𐑯 𐑒𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑕 𐑖𐑨𐑛𐑴𐑟 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑕𐑻𐑓𐑦𐑕, 𐑦𐑑 𐑥𐑱 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑚𐑰 𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑴𐑟𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑼𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑧𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑩 𐑛𐑲𐑩𐑤, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑕𐑑𐑲𐑤 𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑝𐑦 𐑬𐑼-𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑟 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑝𐑛 𐑪𐑯 𐑦𐑑. 𐑪𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑟-𐑛𐑲𐑩𐑤 𐑞 𐑖𐑨𐑛𐑴 𐑪𐑓𐑩𐑯 𐑜𐑴𐑟 𐑚𐑨𐑒. 𐑞 ·𐑓𐑦𐑯-𐑚𐑨𐑒 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑜𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑺𐑾𐑕. 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑟 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑣𐑱𐑑𐑼, 𐑨𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑸 𐑥𐑨𐑯-𐑣𐑱𐑑𐑼𐑟. 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑖𐑲; 𐑷𐑤𐑢𐑱𐑟 𐑜𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑼𐑦; 𐑳𐑯𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑲𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑻𐑓𐑦𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑴𐑑𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑯 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑤𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼𐑟; 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑯 𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑩𐑤 𐑤𐑪𐑓𐑑𐑦 𐑡𐑧𐑑 𐑮𐑲𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑑𐑷𐑤 𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑔𐑮𐑪𐑐𐑦𐑒 𐑕𐑐𐑽 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑩 𐑚𐑨𐑮𐑩𐑯 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯; 𐑜𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑕 𐑐𐑬𐑼 𐑯 𐑝𐑦𐑤𐑪𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑙, 𐑨𐑟 𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑲 𐑷𐑤 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑿𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑥𐑨𐑯; 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑟 𐑞 𐑚𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑖𐑑 𐑯 𐑳𐑯𐑒𐑪𐑙𐑒𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 ·𐑒𐑱𐑯 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑮𐑱𐑕, 𐑚𐑺𐑦𐑙 𐑓 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑸𐑒 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑲𐑤 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑨𐑒. 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑰𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑬𐑔, 𐑞 ·𐑓𐑦𐑯-𐑚𐑨𐑒 𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑵𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑮𐑲𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑩 𐑔𐑽𐑧𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑖𐑰𐑟 𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑪𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 <i>·𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑚𐑴𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟</i>, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑟, 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑰𐑯. 𐑝 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑕𐑴 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑚𐑴𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟, 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑕𐑰𐑥 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑕𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑝𐑼𐑲𐑩𐑑𐑦𐑟, 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑢𐑦𐑗, 𐑣𐑬𐑧𐑝𐑼, 𐑸 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑯𐑴𐑯. 𐑚𐑮𐑷𐑛-𐑯𐑴𐑟𐑛 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑯 𐑚𐑰𐑒𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟; 𐑐𐑲𐑒-𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟; 𐑚𐑳𐑯𐑗𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟; 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼-𐑡𐑷𐑛 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑯 𐑮𐑪𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟, 𐑸 𐑞 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑥𐑧𐑯'𐑟 𐑯𐑱𐑥𐑟 𐑓 𐑩 𐑓𐑿 𐑕𐑹𐑑𐑕.</p>
    <p>𐑦𐑯 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑧𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑩𐑐𐑧𐑤𐑧𐑑𐑦𐑝 𐑝 “𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑚𐑴𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟,” 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑝 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑹𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑑 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑬𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑯𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑙𐑒𐑤𐑩𐑗𐑼 𐑥𐑱 𐑚𐑰 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑝𐑰𐑯𐑾𐑯𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑓𐑩𐑕𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑤𐑵𐑠𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑒𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑝 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟, 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑝𐑱𐑯 𐑑 𐑩𐑑𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑑 𐑩 𐑒𐑤𐑽 𐑒𐑤𐑨𐑕𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯, 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑲𐑞𐑼 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑰𐑯, 𐑹 𐑣𐑳𐑥𐑐, 𐑹 𐑓𐑦𐑯, 𐑹 𐑑𐑰𐑔; 𐑯𐑪𐑑𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑥𐑸𐑒𐑑 𐑐𐑸𐑑𐑕 𐑹 𐑓𐑰𐑗𐑼𐑟 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑪𐑚𐑝𐑾𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑰𐑥 𐑚𐑧𐑑𐑼 𐑩𐑛𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑑 𐑩𐑓𐑹𐑛 𐑞 𐑚𐑱𐑕𐑦𐑕 𐑓 𐑩 𐑮𐑧𐑜𐑿𐑤𐑼 𐑕𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑥 𐑝 ·𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑡𐑦 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑛𐑦𐑑𐑨𐑗𐑑 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑲𐑯𐑛𐑟, 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕. 𐑣𐑬 𐑞𐑧𐑯? 𐑞 𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑰𐑯, 𐑣𐑳𐑥𐑐, 𐑚𐑨𐑒-𐑓𐑦𐑯, 𐑯 𐑑𐑰𐑔; 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑸 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑣𐑵𐑟 𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑦𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑟 𐑸 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑷𐑤 𐑕𐑹𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟, 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑸𐑛 𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑥𐑱 𐑚𐑰 𐑞 𐑯𐑱𐑗𐑼 𐑝 𐑞𐑺 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑒𐑗𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑯 𐑥𐑹 𐑦𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑤 𐑐𐑼𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑼𐑟. 𐑞𐑳𐑕, 𐑞 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑯 𐑞 𐑣𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑚𐑨𐑒𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑰𐑗 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑣𐑳𐑥𐑐; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑞 𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛 𐑕𐑰𐑕𐑩𐑟. 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑣𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑚𐑨𐑒𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑯𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑰𐑗 𐑝 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑰𐑯; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛 𐑕𐑰𐑕𐑩𐑟. 𐑯 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑐𐑸𐑑𐑕 𐑩𐑚𐑳𐑝 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑛. 𐑦𐑯 𐑝𐑺𐑾𐑕 𐑕𐑹𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟, 𐑞𐑱 𐑓𐑹𐑥 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑜𐑿𐑤𐑼 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑚𐑦𐑯𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟; 𐑹, 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑱𐑕 𐑝 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑛𐑦𐑑𐑨𐑗𐑑, 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑜𐑿𐑤𐑼 𐑲𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯; 𐑨𐑟 𐑳𐑑𐑼𐑤𐑦 𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑲 𐑷𐑤 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑥𐑧𐑔𐑩𐑛𐑲𐑟𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑛 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑚𐑱𐑕𐑦𐑕. 𐑪𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑮𐑪𐑒 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑯𐑨𐑗𐑼𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑕 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑕𐑐𐑤𐑦𐑑.</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑥𐑱 𐑐𐑪𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑰 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑰𐑝𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑, 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑐𐑸𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑩𐑯𐑨𐑑𐑩𐑥𐑦—𐑞𐑺, 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑰𐑕𐑑, 𐑢𐑰 𐑖𐑨𐑤 𐑚𐑰 𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑑 𐑞 𐑮𐑲𐑑 𐑒𐑤𐑨𐑕𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯. 𐑯𐑱; 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑔𐑦𐑙, 𐑓 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑭𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑤, 𐑦𐑟 𐑞𐑺 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑯𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑢𐑱𐑤'𐑟 𐑩𐑯𐑨𐑑𐑩𐑥𐑦 𐑥𐑹 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑰𐑯? 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑢𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑕𐑰𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑰𐑯 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑪𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑼𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑑 𐑒𐑤𐑨𐑕𐑦𐑓𐑲 𐑞 ·𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑯𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑢𐑱𐑤. 𐑯 𐑦𐑓 𐑿 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑚𐑬𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑝𐑺𐑾𐑕 𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯𐑟, 𐑢𐑲 𐑞𐑺 𐑿 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑩 𐑓𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑾𐑔 𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑩𐑝𐑱𐑤𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑥𐑩𐑑𐑲𐑟𐑼 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑟 𐑷𐑤𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑿𐑥𐑼𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛. 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑟? 𐑯𐑳𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑑 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑦, 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑲𐑼 𐑤𐑦𐑚𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑝𐑪𐑤𐑿𐑥, 𐑯 𐑚𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑱. 𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 ·𐑚𐑦𐑚𐑤𐑾𐑜𐑮𐑨𐑓𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑥 𐑣𐑽 𐑩𐑛𐑪𐑐𐑑𐑩𐑛; 𐑯 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑐𐑪𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑩𐑒𐑕𐑰𐑛, 𐑓 𐑦𐑑 𐑩𐑤𐑴𐑯 𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑮𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤. 𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑕𐑰𐑛.</p>
    <p>·𐑚𐑫𐑒 𐑲. (<i>𐑓𐑴𐑤𐑦𐑴</i>) ·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 IV. (<i>𐑣𐑳𐑥𐑐 𐑚𐑨𐑒</i>).—𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑦𐑟 𐑪𐑓𐑩𐑯 𐑕𐑰𐑯 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑯𐑹𐑞𐑼𐑯 ·𐑩𐑥𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑒𐑴𐑕𐑑. 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑗𐑼𐑛 𐑞𐑺, 𐑯 𐑑𐑴𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑣𐑸𐑚𐑼. 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑐𐑨𐑒 𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑐𐑧𐑛𐑩𐑤𐑼; 𐑹 𐑿 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑒𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑞 ·𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑓𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑯 ·𐑒𐑭𐑕𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑱𐑤. 𐑨𐑑 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑮𐑱𐑑, 𐑞 𐑐𐑪𐑐𐑿𐑤𐑼 𐑯𐑱𐑥 𐑓 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑛𐑳𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑩𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑢𐑦𐑖 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑕 𐑞 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑷𐑤𐑕𐑴 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑣𐑳𐑥𐑐 𐑞𐑴 𐑩 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤𐑼 𐑢𐑳𐑯. 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑶𐑤 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑝𐑨𐑤𐑿𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤. 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑰𐑯. 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑜𐑱𐑥𐑕𐑩𐑥 𐑯 𐑤𐑲𐑑-𐑣𐑸𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟, 𐑥𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑹 𐑜𐑱 𐑓𐑴𐑥 𐑯 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑝 𐑞𐑧𐑥.</p>
    <p>·𐑚𐑫𐑒 𐑲. (<i>𐑓𐑴𐑤𐑦𐑴</i>), ·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 V. (<i>𐑮𐑱𐑟𐑼 𐑚𐑨𐑒</i>).—𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑴𐑯 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑱𐑥. 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑕𐑰𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑨𐑑 𐑩 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑪𐑓 ·𐑒𐑱𐑐 ·𐑣𐑹𐑯. 𐑝 𐑩 𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑲𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑯𐑱𐑗𐑼, 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑤𐑵𐑛𐑟 𐑚𐑴𐑔 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑯 𐑓𐑦𐑤𐑪𐑕𐑩𐑓𐑼𐑟. 𐑞𐑴 𐑯𐑴 𐑒𐑬𐑼𐑛, 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑖𐑴𐑯 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑨𐑒, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑮𐑲𐑟𐑩𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑖𐑸𐑐 𐑮𐑦𐑡. 𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑜𐑴. 𐑲 𐑯𐑴 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑥𐑹 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑯𐑹 𐑛𐑳𐑟 𐑧𐑯𐑦𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦 𐑧𐑤𐑕.</p>
    <p>·𐑚𐑫𐑒 𐑲. (<i>𐑓𐑴𐑤𐑦𐑴</i>), ·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 VI. (<i>𐑕𐑳𐑤𐑓𐑼 ·𐑚𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑥</i>).—𐑩𐑯𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑲𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑥𐑩𐑯, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑚𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑯 𐑚𐑧𐑤𐑦, 𐑛𐑬𐑑𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑜𐑪𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑱𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑞 ·𐑑𐑸𐑑𐑼𐑾𐑯 𐑑𐑲𐑤𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑛𐑲𐑝𐑦𐑙𐑟. 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑛𐑩𐑥 𐑕𐑰𐑯; 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑰𐑕𐑑 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑕𐑰𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑧𐑐𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑴𐑑𐑼 𐑕𐑳𐑞𐑼𐑯 𐑕𐑰𐑟, 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑷𐑤𐑢𐑱𐑟 𐑨𐑑 𐑑𐑵 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑩 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑛𐑦 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑯𐑕. 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑗𐑱𐑕𐑑; 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑮𐑳𐑯 𐑩𐑢𐑱 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑮𐑴𐑐-𐑢𐑷𐑒𐑕 𐑝 𐑤𐑲𐑯. 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑛𐑦𐑡𐑦𐑟 𐑸 𐑑𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑥. 𐑩𐑛𐑿, ·𐑕𐑳𐑤𐑓𐑼 ·𐑚𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑥! 𐑲 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑕𐑱 𐑯𐑳𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑹 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑮𐑵 𐑝 𐑘𐑰, 𐑯𐑹 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑞 𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑩𐑕𐑑 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑𐑼.</p>
    <p>𐑞𐑳𐑕 𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑟 ·𐑚𐑫𐑒 𐑲. (<i>𐑓𐑴𐑤𐑦𐑴</i>), 𐑯 𐑯𐑬 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑦𐑯𐑟 ·𐑚𐑫𐑒 II. (<i>𐑪𐑒𐑑𐑱𐑝𐑴</i>).</p>
    <p>·𐑪𐑒𐑑𐑱𐑝𐑴𐑟.*—𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑦𐑥𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑕 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑝 𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑨𐑜𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛, 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑥𐑱 𐑚𐑰 𐑯𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑼𐑛:—𐑲., 𐑞 <i>·𐑜𐑮𐑨𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑕</i>; II., 𐑞 <i>·𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒 ·𐑓𐑦𐑖</i>; III., 𐑞 <i>·𐑯𐑸𐑢𐑪𐑤</i>; IV., 𐑞 <i>·𐑔𐑮𐑨𐑖𐑼</i>; V., 𐑞 <i>·𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑼</i>.</p>
    <p>*𐑢𐑲 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑚𐑫𐑒 𐑝 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑪𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑢𐑹𐑑𐑴 𐑦𐑟 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯. 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑪𐑟, 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑹𐑛𐑼, 𐑞𐑴 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑼 𐑹𐑛𐑼, 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑞𐑩𐑤𐑧𐑕 𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑱𐑯 𐑩 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑐𐑹𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑒𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑦𐑯 𐑓𐑦𐑜𐑼, 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑫𐑒𐑚𐑲𐑯𐑛𐑼'𐑟 ·𐑒𐑢𐑹𐑑𐑴 𐑝𐑪𐑤𐑿𐑥 𐑦𐑯 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑛𐑦𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑓𐑹𐑥 𐑛𐑳𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑻𐑝 𐑞 𐑖𐑱𐑐 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑓𐑴𐑤𐑦𐑴 𐑝𐑪𐑤𐑿𐑥, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑪𐑒𐑑𐑱𐑝𐑴 𐑝𐑪𐑤𐑿𐑥 𐑛𐑳𐑟.</p>
    <p>·𐑚𐑫𐑒 II. (<i>𐑪𐑒𐑑𐑱𐑝𐑴</i>), ·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 𐑲. (<i>𐑜𐑮𐑨𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑕</i>).—𐑞𐑴 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑓𐑦𐑖, 𐑣𐑵𐑟 𐑤𐑬𐑛 𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑹𐑩𐑕 𐑚𐑮𐑰𐑞𐑦𐑙, 𐑹 𐑮𐑭𐑞𐑼 𐑚𐑤𐑴𐑦𐑙, 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑓𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑖𐑑 𐑩 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑝𐑻𐑚 𐑑 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑴 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑯𐑴𐑯 𐑩 𐑛𐑧𐑯𐑦𐑟𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑛𐑰𐑐, 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑐𐑪𐑐𐑿𐑤𐑼𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑐𐑩𐑟𐑧𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑑𐑦𐑝 𐑓𐑰𐑗𐑼𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯, 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑯𐑨𐑗𐑼𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑕 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑩𐑜𐑯𐑲𐑟𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑓 𐑢𐑳𐑯. 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑟 𐑝 𐑥𐑪𐑛𐑼𐑩𐑑 𐑪𐑒𐑑𐑱𐑝𐑴 𐑕𐑲𐑟, 𐑝𐑺𐑦𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑓𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑰𐑯 𐑑 𐑑𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑦-𐑓𐑲𐑝 𐑓𐑰𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑤𐑧𐑙𐑔, 𐑯 𐑝 𐑒𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑪𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑛𐑦𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑕𐑑. 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑥𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑻𐑛𐑟; 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑮𐑧𐑜𐑿𐑤𐑼𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑞𐑴 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑶𐑤 𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑦, 𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑓 𐑤𐑲𐑑. 𐑚𐑲 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑩𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑗 𐑦𐑟 𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑸𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑨𐑟 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑝 𐑞 𐑩𐑛𐑝𐑭𐑯𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 𐑢𐑱𐑤.</p>
    <p>·𐑚𐑫𐑒 II. (<i>𐑪𐑒𐑑𐑱𐑝𐑴</i>), ·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 II. (<i>𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒 ·𐑓𐑦𐑖</i>).—𐑲 𐑜𐑦𐑝 𐑞 𐑐𐑪𐑐𐑿𐑤𐑼 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑥𐑧𐑯'𐑟 𐑯𐑱𐑥𐑟 𐑓 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑓𐑦𐑖, 𐑓 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑞𐑱 𐑸 𐑞 𐑚𐑧𐑕𐑑. 𐑢𐑺 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑯𐑱𐑥 𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑝𐑱𐑜 𐑹 𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑦𐑝, 𐑲 𐑖𐑨𐑤 𐑕𐑱 𐑕𐑴, 𐑯 𐑕𐑩𐑡𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑩𐑯𐑳𐑞𐑼. 𐑲 𐑛𐑵 𐑕𐑴 𐑯𐑬, 𐑑𐑳𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑞 ·𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒 ·𐑓𐑦𐑖, 𐑕𐑴-𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛, 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑪𐑟 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑮𐑵𐑤 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟. 𐑕𐑴, 𐑒𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑞 ·𐑣𐑲𐑰𐑯𐑩 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑦𐑓 𐑿 𐑐𐑤𐑰𐑟. 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑝𐑼𐑨𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑯𐑴𐑯, 𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑕 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑼 𐑨𐑙𐑜𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑦𐑐𐑕 𐑸 𐑒𐑻𐑝𐑛 𐑳𐑐𐑢𐑼𐑛𐑟, 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑟 𐑩𐑯 𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 ·𐑥𐑧𐑓𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑓𐑰𐑤𐑾𐑯 𐑜𐑮𐑦𐑯 𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑱𐑕. 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑨𐑝𐑼𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑯 𐑹 𐑱𐑑𐑰𐑯 𐑓𐑰𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑤𐑧𐑙𐑔. 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑤𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛𐑟. 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑽 𐑢𐑱 𐑝 𐑖𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑹𐑕𐑩𐑤 𐑣𐑫𐑒𐑑 𐑓𐑦𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑙, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑕 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 ·𐑮𐑴𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑯𐑴𐑟. 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑥𐑹 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑓𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑶𐑛, 𐑞 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑗𐑼 𐑞 ·𐑣𐑲𐑰𐑯𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑑 𐑒𐑰𐑐 𐑳𐑐 𐑞 𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑤𐑲 𐑝 𐑗𐑰𐑐 𐑶𐑤 𐑓 𐑛𐑩𐑥𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑶𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑—𐑨𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑓𐑮𐑵𐑜𐑩𐑤 𐑣𐑬𐑕𐑒𐑰𐑐𐑼𐑟, 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑨𐑚𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑝 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑦, 𐑯 𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑩𐑤𐑴𐑯 𐑚𐑲 𐑞𐑧𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑝𐑟, 𐑚𐑻𐑯 𐑳𐑯𐑕𐑱𐑝𐑼𐑦 𐑑𐑨𐑤𐑴 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑛 𐑝 𐑴𐑛𐑼𐑩𐑕 𐑢𐑨𐑒𐑕. 𐑞𐑴 𐑞𐑺 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑚𐑼 𐑦𐑟 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑔𐑦𐑯, 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑝 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑘𐑰𐑤𐑛 𐑿 𐑳𐑐𐑢𐑼𐑛𐑟 𐑝 𐑔𐑻𐑑𐑦 𐑜𐑨𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑶𐑤.</p>
    <p>·𐑚𐑫𐑒 II. (<i>𐑪𐑒𐑑𐑱𐑝𐑴</i>), ·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 III. (<i>𐑯𐑸𐑢𐑪𐑤</i>), 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑟, <i>·𐑯𐑪𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑱𐑤</i>.—𐑩𐑯𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑝 𐑩 𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑾𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑯𐑱𐑥𐑛 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑕𐑴 𐑯𐑱𐑥𐑛 𐑲 𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑴𐑟 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑽 𐑣𐑹𐑯 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑼𐑦𐑡𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑓 𐑩 𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑑 𐑯𐑴𐑟. 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑗𐑼 𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑯 𐑓𐑰𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑤𐑧𐑙𐑔, 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑣𐑹𐑯 𐑨𐑝𐑼𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑟 𐑓𐑲𐑝 𐑓𐑰𐑑, 𐑞𐑴 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑰𐑛 𐑑𐑧𐑯, 𐑯 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑩𐑑𐑱𐑯 𐑑 𐑓𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑰𐑯 𐑓𐑰𐑑. 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑦𐑙, 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑣𐑹𐑯 𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 𐑤𐑧𐑙𐑔𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑑𐑳𐑕𐑒, 𐑜𐑮𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑡𐑷 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑤𐑲𐑯 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑛𐑦𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑣𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑼 𐑕𐑲𐑛, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑤 𐑦𐑓𐑧𐑒𐑑, 𐑜𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑴𐑯𐑼 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑯𐑨𐑤𐑩𐑜𐑩𐑕 𐑑 𐑞 𐑨𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑑 𐑝 𐑩 𐑒𐑤𐑳𐑥𐑟𐑦 𐑤𐑧𐑓𐑑-𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑥𐑨𐑯. 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑲𐑕 𐑐𐑻𐑐𐑩𐑕 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑲𐑝𐑼𐑦 𐑣𐑹𐑯 𐑹 𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕 𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑼𐑟, 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑚𐑰 𐑣𐑸𐑛 𐑑 𐑕𐑱. 𐑦𐑑 𐑛𐑳𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑿𐑟𐑛 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞 𐑚𐑤𐑱𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑹𐑛-𐑓𐑦𐑖 𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑤-𐑓𐑦𐑖; 𐑞𐑴 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼𐑟 𐑑𐑧𐑤 𐑥𐑰 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑯𐑸𐑢𐑪𐑤 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑶𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑓 𐑩 𐑮𐑱𐑒 𐑦𐑯 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 𐑚𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑥 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑰 𐑓 𐑓𐑵𐑛. ·𐑗𐑸𐑤𐑦 ·𐑒𐑪𐑓𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑿𐑟𐑛 𐑓 𐑩𐑯 𐑲𐑕-𐑐𐑽𐑕𐑼; 𐑓 𐑞 ·𐑯𐑸𐑢𐑪𐑤, 𐑮𐑲𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑻𐑓𐑦𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑴𐑤𐑼 ·𐑕𐑰, 𐑯 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑑 𐑖𐑰𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑲𐑕, 𐑔𐑮𐑳𐑕𐑑𐑕 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑹𐑯 𐑳𐑐, 𐑯 𐑕𐑴 𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑒𐑕 𐑔𐑮𐑵. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑿 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑵𐑝 𐑲𐑞𐑼 𐑝 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑕𐑼𐑥𐑲𐑟𐑩𐑟 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑒𐑼𐑧𐑒𐑑. 𐑥𐑲 𐑴𐑯 𐑩𐑐𐑦𐑯𐑘𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑟, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑬𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑳𐑯-𐑕𐑲𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑹𐑯 𐑥𐑱 𐑮𐑾𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑰 𐑿𐑟𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 ·𐑯𐑸𐑢𐑪𐑤—𐑣𐑬𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑱 𐑚𐑰—𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑰 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑝𐑰𐑯𐑾𐑯𐑑 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑓 𐑩 𐑓𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑮𐑰𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑐𐑨𐑥𐑓𐑤𐑩𐑑𐑕. 𐑞 ·𐑯𐑸𐑢𐑪𐑤 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑣𐑻𐑛 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛 𐑞 ·𐑑𐑳𐑕𐑒𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑞 ·𐑣𐑹𐑯𐑛 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑿𐑯𐑦𐑒𐑹𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑤. 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑩 𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑾𐑕 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑭𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑿𐑯𐑦𐑒𐑹𐑯𐑦𐑟𐑩𐑥 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑒𐑦𐑙𐑛𐑩𐑥 𐑝 𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑥𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑯𐑱𐑗𐑼. 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑒𐑤𐑶𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑛 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑷𐑔𐑼𐑟 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑜𐑨𐑞𐑼𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑕𐑰-𐑿𐑯𐑦𐑒𐑹𐑯'𐑟 𐑣𐑹𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑱𐑯𐑗𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑛𐑱𐑟 𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑸𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑛𐑴𐑑 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑐𐑶𐑟𐑩𐑯, 𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑗, 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑐𐑼𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑦𐑑 𐑚𐑮𐑷𐑑 𐑦𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑕 𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑕𐑩𐑟. 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑷𐑤𐑕𐑴 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤𐑛 𐑑 𐑩 𐑝𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑑𐑲𐑤 𐑕𐑷𐑤𐑑𐑕 𐑓 𐑓𐑱𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑱𐑛𐑦𐑟, 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑢𐑱 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑣𐑹𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑥𐑱𐑤 𐑛𐑽 𐑸 𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑿𐑓𐑨𐑒𐑗𐑼𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑣𐑸𐑑𐑕𐑣𐑹𐑯. 𐑼𐑦𐑡𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑦𐑑𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑩𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑩𐑯 𐑪𐑚𐑡𐑧𐑒𐑑 𐑝 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑦𐑪𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑦. 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒 ·𐑤𐑧𐑑𐑼 𐑑𐑧𐑤𐑟 𐑥𐑰 𐑞𐑨𐑑 ·𐑕𐑻 ·𐑥𐑸𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑓𐑮𐑴𐑚𐑦𐑖𐑼 𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑻𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑯 ·𐑚𐑧𐑕 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑜𐑨𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑱𐑝 𐑣𐑻 𐑡𐑵𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑩 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑴 𐑝 ·𐑜𐑮𐑧𐑯𐑦𐑗 ·𐑐𐑨𐑤𐑩𐑕, 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑛 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑑𐑧𐑥𐑟; “𐑢𐑧𐑯 ·𐑕𐑻 ·𐑥𐑸𐑑𐑦𐑯 𐑮𐑩𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡,” 𐑕𐑧𐑔 ·𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒 ·𐑤𐑧𐑑𐑼, “𐑪𐑯 𐑚𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑯𐑰𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑑 𐑣𐑻 𐑣𐑲𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑩 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑛𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑕 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑣𐑹𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑯𐑸𐑢𐑪𐑤, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑓 𐑩 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑐𐑽𐑾𐑛 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑣𐑳𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑭𐑕𐑩𐑤 𐑨𐑑 ·𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑟𐑼.” 𐑩𐑯 ·𐑲𐑮𐑦𐑖 𐑷𐑔𐑼 𐑩𐑝𐑻𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑻𐑤 𐑝 ·𐑤𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑼, 𐑪𐑯 𐑚𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑯𐑰𐑟, 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑤𐑲𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑟 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑑 𐑣𐑻 𐑣𐑲𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑩𐑯𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑣𐑹𐑯, 𐑐𐑼𐑑𐑱𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑩 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑚𐑰𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑿𐑯𐑦𐑒𐑹𐑯 𐑯𐑱𐑗𐑼.</p>
    <p>𐑞 ·𐑯𐑸𐑢𐑪𐑤 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑗𐑼𐑧𐑕𐑒, 𐑤𐑧𐑐𐑼𐑛-𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑤𐑫𐑒, 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑩 𐑥𐑦𐑤𐑒-𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑜𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑒𐑳𐑤𐑼, 𐑛𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑯 𐑪𐑚𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑕𐑐𐑪𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒. 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑶𐑤 𐑦𐑟 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑕𐑵𐑐𐑽𐑽, 𐑒𐑤𐑽 𐑯 𐑓𐑲𐑯; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑦𐑑, 𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑛𐑩𐑥 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛. 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑼𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑴𐑤𐑼 𐑕𐑰𐑟.</p>
    <p>·𐑚𐑫𐑒 II. (<i>𐑪𐑒𐑑𐑱𐑝𐑴</i>), ·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 IV. (<i>𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑼</i>).—𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑲𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑯𐑴𐑯 𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑𐑼, 𐑯 𐑯𐑳𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑑 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑓𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑯𐑨𐑗𐑼𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑕𐑑. 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑕𐑰𐑯 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑨𐑑 𐑩 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕, 𐑲 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑕𐑱 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑩 𐑜𐑮𐑨𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑕. 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑟 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑕𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑡—𐑩 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 ·𐑝𐑰𐑡𐑰 𐑓𐑦𐑖. 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑕 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 ·𐑓𐑴𐑤𐑦𐑴 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑤𐑦𐑐, 𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑙𐑟 𐑞𐑺 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑤𐑰𐑗, 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑞 𐑥𐑲𐑑𐑦 𐑚𐑮𐑵𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑳𐑮𐑦𐑛 𐑑 𐑛𐑧𐑔. 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑼 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛. 𐑲 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑣𐑻𐑛 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑶𐑤 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑟. 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑧𐑐𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑑 𐑞 𐑯𐑱𐑥 𐑚𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑛 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑝 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑑𐑯𐑩𐑕. 𐑓 𐑢𐑰 𐑸 𐑷𐑤 𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑼𐑟, 𐑪𐑯 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑯 𐑪𐑯 𐑕𐑰; ·𐑚𐑴𐑯𐑩𐑐𐑸𐑑𐑕 𐑯 ·𐑖𐑸𐑒𐑕 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑵𐑛𐑩𐑛.</p>
    <p>·𐑚𐑫𐑒 II. (<i>𐑪𐑒𐑑𐑱𐑝𐑴</i>), ·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 V. (<i>𐑔𐑮𐑨𐑖𐑼</i>).—𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑱𐑥𐑩𐑕 𐑓 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑱𐑤, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑣𐑰 𐑿𐑟𐑩𐑟 𐑓 𐑩 𐑓𐑧𐑮𐑵𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑔𐑮𐑨𐑖𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑴𐑟. 𐑣𐑰 𐑥𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑞 ·𐑓𐑴𐑤𐑦𐑴 𐑢𐑱𐑤'𐑟 𐑚𐑨𐑒, 𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑥𐑟, 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑻𐑒𐑕 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑨𐑕𐑦𐑡 𐑚𐑲 𐑓𐑤𐑪𐑜𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥; 𐑨𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑕𐑒𐑵𐑤𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑜𐑧𐑑 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑩 𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑤𐑼 𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑕𐑧𐑕. 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑤𐑧𐑕 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑴𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑔𐑮𐑨𐑖𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑼. 𐑚𐑴𐑔 𐑸 𐑬𐑑𐑤𐑷𐑟, 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑤𐑷𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑕𐑰𐑟.</p>
    <p>𐑞𐑳𐑕 𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑟 ·𐑚𐑫𐑒 II. (<i>𐑪𐑒𐑑𐑱𐑝𐑴</i>), 𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑦𐑯𐑟 ·𐑚𐑫𐑒 III. (<i>·𐑛𐑘𐑵𐑴𐑛𐑧𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑤</i>).</p>
    <p>·𐑛𐑘𐑵𐑴𐑛𐑧𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑴𐑟.—𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑵𐑛 𐑞 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤𐑼 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟. 𐑲. 𐑞 ·𐑣𐑩𐑟𐑭 ·𐑐𐑹𐑐𐑩𐑕. II. 𐑞 ·𐑨𐑤𐑜𐑩𐑮𐑲𐑯 ·𐑐𐑹𐑐𐑩𐑕. III. 𐑞 ·𐑥𐑰𐑤𐑦-𐑥𐑬𐑞𐑛 ·𐑐𐑹𐑐𐑩𐑕.</p>
    <p>𐑑 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑣𐑵 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑗𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑛𐑦 𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑚𐑡𐑧𐑒𐑑, 𐑦𐑑 𐑥𐑱 𐑐𐑪𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑰𐑥 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑰𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑹 𐑹 𐑓𐑲𐑝 𐑓𐑰𐑑 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑚𐑰 𐑥𐑸𐑖𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟—𐑩 𐑢𐑻𐑛, 𐑢𐑦𐑗, 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑪𐑐𐑿𐑤𐑼 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑕, 𐑷𐑤𐑢𐑱𐑟 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑝𐑱𐑟 𐑩𐑯 𐑲𐑛𐑾 𐑝 𐑣𐑿𐑡𐑯𐑩𐑕. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑗𐑼𐑟 𐑕𐑧𐑑 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑩𐑚𐑳𐑝 𐑨𐑟 ·𐑛𐑘𐑵𐑴𐑛𐑧𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑸 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑨𐑤𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟, 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑑𐑻𐑥𐑟 𐑝 𐑥𐑲 𐑛𐑧𐑓𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑦𐑟—<i>𐑲𐑰</i> 𐑩 𐑕𐑐𐑬𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑦𐑖, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑣𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑑𐑱𐑤.</p>
    <p>·𐑚𐑫𐑒 III. (<i>·𐑛𐑘𐑵𐑴𐑛𐑧𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑤</i>), ·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 1. (<i>𐑣𐑩𐑟𐑭 ·𐑐𐑹𐑐𐑩𐑕</i>).—𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑐𐑹𐑐𐑩𐑕 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 𐑜𐑤𐑴𐑚. 𐑞 𐑯𐑱𐑥 𐑦𐑟 𐑝 𐑥𐑲 𐑴𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑩𐑤; 𐑓 𐑞𐑺 𐑸 𐑥𐑹 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑐𐑹𐑐𐑩𐑕𐑩𐑟, 𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑛𐑳𐑯 𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑢𐑦𐑖 𐑞𐑧𐑥. 𐑲 𐑒𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑞𐑳𐑕, 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑪𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑷𐑤𐑢𐑱𐑟 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑥𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑤𐑺𐑾𐑕 𐑖𐑴𐑤𐑟, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑮𐑷𐑛 𐑕𐑰 𐑒𐑰𐑐 𐑑𐑪𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑧𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑝𐑟 𐑑 𐑣𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 ·𐑓𐑹𐑔-𐑝-𐑡𐑩𐑤𐑲 𐑒𐑮𐑬𐑛. 𐑞𐑺 𐑩𐑐𐑽𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑦𐑟 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑱𐑤𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑲𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑯𐑼. 𐑓𐑫𐑤 𐑝 𐑓𐑲𐑯 𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑕, 𐑞𐑱 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑺𐑾𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑚𐑮𐑰𐑟𐑦 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑴𐑟 𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑢𐑼𐑛. 𐑞𐑱 𐑸 𐑞 𐑤𐑨𐑛𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤𐑢𐑱𐑟 𐑤𐑦𐑝 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛. 𐑞𐑱 𐑸 𐑩𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑩 𐑤𐑳𐑒𐑦 𐑴𐑥𐑩𐑯. 𐑦𐑓 𐑿 𐑘𐑹𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑗𐑽𐑟 𐑨𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑝𐑦𐑝𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑕 𐑓𐑦𐑖, 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑣𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑐 𐑘𐑰; 𐑞 𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑮𐑦𐑑 𐑝 𐑜𐑪𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑜𐑱𐑥𐑕𐑩𐑥𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑘𐑰. 𐑩 𐑢𐑧𐑤-𐑓𐑧𐑛, 𐑐𐑤𐑳𐑥𐑐 ·𐑣𐑩𐑟𐑭 ·𐑐𐑹𐑐𐑩𐑕 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑘𐑰𐑤𐑛 𐑿 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑜𐑨𐑤𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑶𐑤. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑓𐑲𐑯 𐑯 𐑛𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑑 𐑓𐑤𐑵𐑦𐑛 𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑡𐑷𐑟 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑰𐑛𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑝𐑨𐑤𐑿𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤. 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑡𐑵𐑩𐑤𐑼𐑟 𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑗𐑥𐑱𐑒𐑼𐑟. 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼𐑟 𐑐𐑫𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑣𐑴𐑯𐑟. 𐑐𐑹𐑐𐑩𐑕 𐑥𐑰𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑰𐑑𐑦𐑙, 𐑿 𐑯𐑴. 𐑦𐑑 𐑥𐑱 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑩𐑒𐑻𐑛 𐑑 𐑿 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑩 𐑐𐑹𐑐𐑩𐑕 𐑕𐑐𐑬𐑑𐑕. 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑰𐑛, 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑐𐑬𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑴 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑻𐑯𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑯𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑿 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑩 𐑗𐑭𐑯𐑕, 𐑢𐑪𐑗 𐑣𐑦𐑥; 𐑯 𐑿 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑕𐑰 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑗𐑼.</p>
    <p>·𐑚𐑫𐑒 III. (<i>·𐑛𐑘𐑵𐑴𐑛𐑧𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑤</i>), ·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 II. (<i>·𐑨𐑤𐑜𐑩𐑮𐑲𐑯 ·𐑐𐑹𐑐𐑩𐑕</i>).—𐑩 𐑐𐑲𐑮𐑩𐑑. 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑕𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑡. 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛, 𐑲 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒, 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑩𐑕𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒. 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑤𐑸𐑡𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑣𐑩𐑟𐑭 ·𐑐𐑹𐑐𐑩𐑕, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑥𐑱𐑒. 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑝𐑴𐑒 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑚𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑑 𐑩 𐑖𐑸𐑒. 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑤𐑴𐑼𐑛 𐑓 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑕𐑷 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑗𐑼𐑛.</p>
    <p>·𐑚𐑫𐑒 III. (<i>·𐑛𐑘𐑵𐑴𐑛𐑧𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑤</i>), ·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 III. (<i>𐑥𐑰𐑤𐑦-𐑥𐑬𐑞𐑛 ·𐑐𐑹𐑐𐑩𐑕</i>).—𐑞 𐑤𐑸𐑡𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑒𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑝 ·𐑐𐑹𐑐𐑩𐑕; 𐑯 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑩𐑕𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒, 𐑕𐑴 𐑓𐑸 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑴𐑯. 𐑞 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 ·𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑤𐑦𐑖 𐑯𐑱𐑥, 𐑚𐑲 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑞𐑼𐑑𐑵 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑛𐑧𐑟𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑦𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑟—·𐑮𐑲𐑑-·𐑢𐑱𐑤 ·𐑐𐑹𐑐𐑩𐑕, 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑕 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑟 𐑗𐑰𐑓𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑝𐑦𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑞𐑨𐑑 ·𐑓𐑴𐑤𐑦𐑴. 𐑦𐑯 𐑖𐑱𐑐, 𐑣𐑰 𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑼𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑛𐑦𐑜𐑮𐑰 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 ·𐑣𐑩𐑟𐑭 ·𐑐𐑹𐑐𐑩𐑕, 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑩 𐑤𐑧𐑕 𐑮𐑴𐑑𐑳𐑯𐑛 𐑯 𐑡𐑪𐑤𐑦 𐑜𐑻𐑔; 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑰𐑛, 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑟 𐑝 𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑩 𐑯𐑰𐑑 𐑯 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑥𐑩𐑯-𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑓𐑦𐑜𐑼. 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑯𐑴 𐑓𐑦𐑯𐑟 𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑨𐑒 (𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑐𐑹𐑐𐑩𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑝), 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑤𐑳𐑝𐑤𐑦 𐑑𐑱𐑤, 𐑯 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤 ·𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑾𐑯 𐑲𐑟 𐑝 𐑩 𐑣𐑱𐑟𐑩𐑤 𐑣𐑿. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑰𐑤𐑦-𐑥𐑬𐑔 𐑕𐑐𐑶𐑤𐑟 𐑷𐑤. 𐑞𐑴 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑲𐑼 𐑚𐑨𐑒 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑓𐑦𐑯𐑟 𐑦𐑟 𐑝 𐑩 𐑛𐑰𐑐 𐑕𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤, 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑩 𐑚𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑦 𐑤𐑲𐑯, 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑥𐑸𐑒 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑖𐑦𐑐'𐑕 𐑣𐑳𐑤, 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛 𐑞 “𐑚𐑮𐑲𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑕𐑑,” 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑰𐑒𐑕 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑥 𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑻𐑯, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑑𐑵 𐑕𐑧𐑐𐑼𐑩𐑑 𐑒𐑳𐑤𐑼𐑟, 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒 𐑩𐑚𐑳𐑝 𐑯 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑴. 𐑞 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑟𐑩𐑟 𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑧𐑛, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑬𐑔, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑥𐑱𐑒𐑕 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑓 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑱𐑐𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑩 𐑓𐑦𐑤𐑴𐑯𐑾𐑕 𐑝𐑦𐑟𐑦𐑑 𐑑 𐑩 𐑥𐑰𐑤-𐑚𐑨𐑜. 𐑩 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑰𐑯 𐑯 𐑥𐑰𐑤𐑦 𐑨𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑑! 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑶𐑤 𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑐𐑹𐑐𐑩𐑕.</p>
    <p>* * * * * *</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑦𐑘𐑪𐑯𐑛 𐑞 ·𐑛𐑘𐑵𐑴𐑛𐑧𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑤, 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑕𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑥 𐑛𐑳𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑕𐑰𐑛, 𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑟𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑹𐑐𐑩𐑕 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟. 𐑩𐑚𐑳𐑝, 𐑿 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 ·𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑯𐑴𐑑. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑸 𐑩 𐑮𐑨𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑳𐑯𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯, 𐑓𐑿𐑡𐑩𐑑𐑦𐑝, 𐑣𐑭𐑓-𐑓𐑨𐑚𐑿𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟, 𐑢𐑦𐑗, 𐑨𐑟 𐑩𐑯 ·𐑩𐑥𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑥𐑩𐑯, 𐑲 𐑯𐑴 𐑚𐑲 𐑮𐑧𐑐𐑿𐑑𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑐𐑻𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑤𐑦. 𐑲 𐑖𐑨𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑿𐑥𐑼𐑱𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑚𐑲 𐑞𐑺 𐑓𐑹-𐑒𐑭𐑕𐑩𐑤 𐑨𐑐𐑩𐑤𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟; 𐑓 𐑐𐑪𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑱 𐑚𐑰 𐑝𐑨𐑤𐑿𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑑 𐑓𐑿𐑗𐑼 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑜𐑱𐑑𐑼𐑟, 𐑣𐑵 𐑥𐑱 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑰𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑣𐑽 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑳𐑯. 𐑦𐑓 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑝 𐑞 𐑓𐑪𐑤𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟, 𐑖𐑨𐑤 𐑣𐑽𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑚𐑰 𐑒𐑷𐑑 𐑯 𐑥𐑸𐑒𐑑, 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑰 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑹𐑐𐑼𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞𐑦𐑕 ·𐑕𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑥, 𐑩𐑒𐑹𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 ·𐑓𐑴𐑤𐑦𐑴, ·𐑪𐑒𐑑𐑱𐑝𐑴, 𐑹 ·𐑛𐑘𐑵𐑴𐑛𐑧𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑤 𐑥𐑨𐑜𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛:—𐑞 ·𐑚𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑤-·𐑯𐑴𐑟 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤; 𐑞 ·𐑡𐑳𐑙𐑒 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤; 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑫𐑛𐑦𐑙-·𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑩𐑛 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤; 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑱𐑐 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤; 𐑞 ·𐑤𐑰𐑛𐑦𐑙 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤; 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑩𐑯 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤; 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑨𐑜 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤; 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑪𐑐𐑼𐑛 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤; 𐑞 ·𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑓𐑩𐑯𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤; 𐑞 ·𐑲𐑕𐑚𐑻𐑜 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤; 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑜 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤; 𐑞 ·𐑚𐑤𐑵 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤; 𐑧𐑑𐑕 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 ·𐑲𐑕𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑒, ·𐑛𐑳𐑗, 𐑯 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑤𐑦𐑖 𐑷𐑔𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑟, 𐑞𐑺 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑒𐑢𐑴𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑤𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑳𐑯𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟, 𐑚𐑤𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑷𐑤 𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑼 𐑝 𐑳𐑯𐑒𐑵𐑔 𐑯𐑱𐑥𐑟. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑲 𐑴𐑥𐑦𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑨𐑟 𐑷𐑤𐑑𐑩𐑜𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑪𐑚𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑰𐑑; 𐑯 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑣𐑸𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑐 𐑕𐑩𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑓 𐑥𐑽 𐑕𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑟, 𐑓𐑫𐑤 𐑝 ·𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑟𐑩𐑥, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑦𐑓𐑲𐑦𐑙 𐑯𐑳𐑔𐑦𐑙.</p>
    <p>𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑩𐑤𐑦: 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑬𐑑𐑕𐑧𐑑, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑕𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑥 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑣𐑽, 𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕, 𐑐𐑼𐑓𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛. 𐑿 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑰 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑒𐑧𐑐𐑑 𐑥𐑲 𐑢𐑻𐑛. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑲 𐑯𐑬 𐑤𐑰𐑝 𐑥𐑲 𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑡𐑦𐑒𐑨𐑤 ·𐑕𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑥 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑳𐑕 𐑳𐑯𐑓𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑖𐑑, 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 ·𐑒𐑩𐑔𐑰𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑤 𐑝 ·𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑴𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑤𐑧𐑓𐑑, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑱𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑑𐑪𐑐 𐑝 𐑞 𐑳𐑯𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑰𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑑𐑬𐑼. 𐑓 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤 𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑥𐑱 𐑚𐑰 𐑓𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑖𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑞𐑺 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑸𐑒𐑦𐑑𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑕; 𐑜𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑟, 𐑑𐑮𐑵 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑟, 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑤𐑰𐑝 𐑞 𐑒𐑴𐑐𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑯 𐑑 𐑐𐑪𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑦. 𐑜𐑪𐑛 𐑒𐑰𐑐 𐑥𐑰 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑰𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑧𐑯𐑦𐑔𐑦𐑙. 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑚𐑫𐑒 𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 𐑛𐑮𐑭𐑓𐑑—𐑯𐑱, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑛𐑮𐑭𐑓𐑑 𐑝 𐑩 𐑛𐑮𐑭𐑓𐑑. 𐑴, ·𐑑𐑲𐑥, ·𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑙𐑔, ·𐑒𐑨𐑖, 𐑯 ·𐑐𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑕!</p>
  </body>
</html>
