<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Chapter 60</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="chapter-60" xml:lang="en-US">
      <h2 id="chapterheader-60">·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 60. 𐑞 ·𐑤𐑲𐑯.</h2>
    </div>
    <p>𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑮𐑧𐑓𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑰𐑯 𐑖𐑹𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑚𐑛, 𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑨𐑟 𐑓 𐑞 𐑚𐑧𐑑𐑼 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑤𐑼 𐑕𐑰𐑯𐑟 𐑧𐑤𐑕𐑢𐑺 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑣𐑽 𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑒 𐑝 𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑡𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤, 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑣𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑤𐑲𐑯.</p>
    <p>𐑞 𐑤𐑲𐑯 𐑼𐑦𐑡𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑿𐑟𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑦 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑧𐑥𐑐, 𐑕𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑝𐑱𐑐𐑼𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑑𐑸, 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑜𐑯𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑦𐑑, 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑱𐑕 𐑝 𐑹𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑼𐑦 𐑮𐑴𐑐𐑕; 𐑓 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑑𐑸, 𐑨𐑟 𐑹𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑺𐑦𐑤𐑦 𐑿𐑟𐑛, 𐑥𐑱𐑒𐑕 𐑞 𐑣𐑧𐑥𐑐 𐑥𐑹 𐑐𐑤𐑲𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑑 𐑞 𐑮𐑴𐑐-𐑥𐑱𐑒𐑼, 𐑯 𐑷𐑤𐑕𐑴 𐑮𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑟 𐑞 𐑮𐑴𐑐 𐑦𐑑𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑥𐑹 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑝𐑰𐑯𐑾𐑯𐑑 𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼 𐑓 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑿𐑕; 𐑘𐑧𐑑, 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑞 𐑹𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑼𐑦 𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑑𐑵 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑓𐑩𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑤𐑲𐑯 𐑓 𐑞 𐑒𐑤𐑴𐑕 𐑒𐑶𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑦𐑑 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑡𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑸 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑤𐑻𐑯, 𐑑𐑸 𐑦𐑯 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑚𐑲 𐑯𐑴 𐑥𐑰𐑯𐑟 𐑨𐑛𐑟 𐑑 𐑞 𐑮𐑴𐑐'𐑕 𐑛𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑹 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑙𐑔, 𐑣𐑬𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑦𐑑 𐑥𐑱 𐑜𐑦𐑝 𐑦𐑑 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑯 𐑜𐑤𐑪𐑕.</p>
    <p>𐑝 𐑤𐑱𐑑 𐑘𐑽𐑟 𐑞 ·𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑤𐑩 𐑮𐑴𐑐 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑩𐑥𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑦 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑲𐑼𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑵𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑰𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑧𐑥𐑐 𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑥𐑩𐑑𐑽𐑾𐑤 𐑓 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑟; 𐑓, 𐑞𐑴 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑴 𐑛𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑧𐑥𐑐, 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑪𐑙𐑜𐑼, 𐑯 𐑓𐑸 𐑥𐑹 𐑕𐑪𐑓𐑑 𐑯 𐑦𐑤𐑨𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑒; 𐑯 𐑲 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑨𐑛 (𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑕 𐑞𐑺 𐑦𐑟 𐑩𐑯 𐑧𐑕𐑔𐑧𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑟), 𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑥𐑹 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑕𐑩𐑥 𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑, 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑣𐑧𐑥𐑐. 𐑣𐑧𐑥𐑐 𐑦𐑟 𐑩 𐑛𐑳𐑕𐑒𐑦, 𐑛𐑸𐑒 𐑓𐑧𐑤𐑴, 𐑩 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 ·𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑾𐑯; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 ·𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑤𐑩 𐑦𐑟 𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑜𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑩𐑯-𐑣𐑺𐑛 ·𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑨𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛.</p>
    <p>𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑤𐑲𐑯 𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑑𐑵-𐑔𐑻𐑛𐑟 𐑝 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑗 𐑦𐑯 𐑔𐑦𐑒𐑯𐑩𐑕. 𐑨𐑑 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑲𐑑, 𐑿 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑴 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑪𐑙 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑮𐑾𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑟. 𐑚𐑲 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑯 𐑓𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑦 𐑘𐑸𐑯𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑰𐑗 𐑕𐑩𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑑 𐑝 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑛 𐑯 𐑑𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑦 𐑐𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑟; 𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑮𐑴𐑐 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑚𐑺 𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯 𐑯𐑽𐑤𐑦 𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑩𐑤 𐑑 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑑𐑳𐑯𐑟. 𐑦𐑯 𐑤𐑧𐑙𐑔, 𐑞 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑤𐑲𐑯 𐑥𐑧𐑠𐑼𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑑𐑵 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑛 𐑓𐑨𐑞𐑩𐑥𐑟. 𐑑𐑩𐑢𐑹𐑛𐑟 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑻𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑐𐑲𐑮𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑶𐑤𐑛 𐑩𐑢𐑱 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑑𐑳𐑚, 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑥-𐑐𐑲𐑐 𐑝 𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑞𐑴, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑴 𐑨𐑟 𐑑 𐑓𐑹𐑥 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛, 𐑗𐑰𐑟-𐑖𐑱𐑐𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑕 𐑝 𐑛𐑧𐑯𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑧𐑛𐑩𐑛 “𐑖𐑰𐑝𐑟,” 𐑹 𐑤𐑱𐑼𐑟 𐑝 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑒 𐑕𐑐𐑲𐑮𐑩𐑤𐑲𐑟𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟, 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑣𐑪𐑤𐑴 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 “𐑣𐑸𐑑,” 𐑹 𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑑 𐑝𐑻𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑑𐑿𐑚 𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑨𐑒𐑕𐑦𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑗𐑰𐑟. 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑤𐑰𐑕𐑑 𐑑𐑨𐑙𐑜𐑩𐑤 𐑹 𐑒𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑶𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑫𐑛, 𐑦𐑯 𐑮𐑳𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑑, 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑨𐑤𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦'𐑟 𐑸𐑥, 𐑤𐑧𐑜, 𐑹 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑲𐑼 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦 𐑪𐑓, 𐑞 𐑳𐑑𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑷𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑟 𐑿𐑟𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑤𐑲𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑑𐑳𐑚. 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑿𐑥 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑲𐑼 𐑥𐑹𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑚𐑦𐑟𐑯𐑩𐑕, 𐑒𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑤𐑲𐑯 𐑣𐑲 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑓𐑑 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑮𐑰𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑑 𐑛𐑬𐑯𐑢𐑼𐑛𐑟 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑩 𐑚𐑤𐑪𐑒 𐑑𐑩𐑢𐑹𐑛𐑟 𐑞 𐑑𐑳𐑚, 𐑕𐑴 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑨𐑒𐑑 𐑝 𐑒𐑶𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑰 𐑦𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑷𐑤 𐑐𐑪𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑮𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑯 𐑑𐑢𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑕.</p>
    <p>𐑦𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑤𐑦𐑖 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕 𐑑𐑵 𐑑𐑳𐑚𐑟 𐑸 𐑿𐑟𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑛 𐑝 𐑢𐑳𐑯; 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑤𐑲𐑯 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑿𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑶𐑤𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑚𐑴𐑔 𐑑𐑳𐑚𐑟. 𐑞𐑺 𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑩𐑛𐑝𐑭𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑡 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕; 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑪𐑟 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑑𐑢𐑦𐑯-𐑑𐑳𐑚𐑟 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑴 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑱 𐑓𐑦𐑑 𐑥𐑹 𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑, 𐑯 𐑛𐑵 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑴 𐑥𐑳𐑗; 𐑢𐑺𐑨𐑟, 𐑞 ·𐑩𐑥𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑑𐑳𐑚, 𐑯𐑽𐑤𐑦 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑓𐑰𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑛𐑲𐑨𐑥𐑦𐑑𐑼 𐑯 𐑝 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑐𐑹𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑑 𐑛𐑧𐑐𐑔, 𐑥𐑱𐑒𐑕 𐑩 𐑮𐑭𐑞𐑼 𐑚𐑳𐑤𐑒𐑦 𐑓𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑓 𐑩 𐑒𐑮𐑭𐑓𐑑 𐑣𐑵𐑟 𐑐𐑤𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑕 𐑸 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑣𐑭𐑓-𐑦𐑯𐑗 𐑦𐑯 𐑔𐑦𐑒𐑯𐑩𐑕; 𐑓 𐑞 𐑚𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑥 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑲𐑕, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑚𐑺 𐑳𐑐 𐑩 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑚𐑿𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑱𐑑, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑝 𐑩 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑳𐑯. 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑱𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑝𐑩𐑕 𐑒𐑳𐑝𐑼 𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑤𐑨𐑐𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑩𐑥𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑤𐑲𐑯-𐑑𐑳𐑚, 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑕 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑓 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑻 𐑐𐑫𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑓 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑛𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑕 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑢𐑧𐑛𐑦𐑙-𐑒𐑱𐑒 𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟.</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑴𐑔 𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑤𐑲𐑯 𐑸 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑴𐑟𐑛; 𐑞 𐑤𐑴𐑼 𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑑𐑻𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑩𐑯 𐑲-𐑕𐑐𐑤𐑲𐑕 𐑹 𐑤𐑵𐑐 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑐 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑚𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑥 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 𐑑𐑳𐑚, 𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑙𐑦𐑙 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑧𐑡 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑰𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑜𐑱𐑡𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦𐑔𐑦𐑙. 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑼𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑤𐑴𐑼 𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑧𐑕𐑦𐑕𐑺𐑦 𐑪𐑯 𐑑𐑵 𐑩𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑕. 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑: 𐑦𐑯 𐑹𐑛𐑼 𐑑 𐑓𐑩𐑕𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑱𐑑 𐑞 𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑝 𐑩𐑯 𐑩𐑛𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑤𐑲𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑩 𐑯𐑱𐑚𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑴𐑑, 𐑦𐑯 𐑒𐑱𐑕 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑕𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑕𐑴 𐑛𐑰𐑐 𐑨𐑟 𐑑 𐑔𐑮𐑧𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑑 𐑒𐑨𐑮𐑦 𐑪𐑓 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑲𐑼 𐑤𐑲𐑯 𐑼𐑦𐑡𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑑𐑨𐑗𐑑 𐑑 𐑞 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯. 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟, 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑝 𐑒𐑹𐑕 𐑦𐑟 𐑖𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑥𐑳𐑜 𐑝 𐑱𐑤, 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑻, 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑑 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼; 𐑞𐑴 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑷𐑤𐑢𐑱𐑟 𐑣𐑪𐑝𐑼𐑟 𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑩𐑕𐑦𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑹𐑑. 𐑕𐑧𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑛: 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑼𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑓 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑕𐑱𐑓𐑑𐑦'𐑟 𐑕𐑱𐑒; 𐑓 𐑢𐑻 𐑞 𐑤𐑴𐑼 𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 𐑤𐑲𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑢𐑱 𐑩𐑑𐑨𐑗𐑑 𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑, 𐑯 𐑢𐑻 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑑 𐑮𐑳𐑯 𐑞 𐑤𐑲𐑯 𐑬𐑑 𐑑 𐑞 𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑩𐑤, 𐑕𐑥𐑴𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑛𐑳𐑟, 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑪𐑐 𐑞𐑺, 𐑓 𐑞 𐑛𐑵𐑥𐑛 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑨𐑤𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑰 𐑛𐑮𐑨𐑜𐑛 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑓𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑰; 𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑒𐑱𐑕 𐑯𐑴 𐑑𐑬𐑯-𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑼 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑻 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯.</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑤𐑴𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑓 𐑞 𐑗𐑱𐑕, 𐑞 𐑳𐑐𐑼 𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 𐑤𐑲𐑯 𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑭𐑓𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑑𐑳𐑚, 𐑯 𐑐𐑭𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑤𐑪𐑜𐑼𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑞𐑺, 𐑦𐑟 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯 𐑒𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑛 𐑓𐑹𐑢𐑼𐑛 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑲𐑼 𐑤𐑧𐑙𐑔 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑, 𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑮𐑪𐑕𐑢𐑲𐑟 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑤𐑵𐑥 𐑹 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑥𐑨𐑯'𐑟 𐑹, 𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑡𐑪𐑜𐑟 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑮𐑴𐑦𐑙; 𐑯 𐑷𐑤𐑕𐑴 𐑐𐑭𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑢𐑰𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑱 𐑷𐑤𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑩𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑦𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑪𐑐𐑩𐑟𐑦𐑑 𐑜𐑳𐑯𐑩𐑤𐑟, 𐑑 𐑞 𐑤𐑧𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑗𐑪𐑒𐑕 𐑹 𐑜𐑮𐑵𐑝𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑰𐑥 𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑐𐑮𐑬 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑, 𐑢𐑺 𐑩 𐑢𐑫𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑐𐑦𐑯 𐑹 𐑕𐑒𐑿𐑼 𐑞 𐑕𐑲𐑟 𐑝 𐑩 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑤, 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑦𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑕𐑤𐑦𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑑. 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑗𐑪𐑒𐑕 𐑦𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑙𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑕𐑤𐑲𐑑 𐑓𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑵𐑯 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 𐑚𐑬𐑟, 𐑯 𐑦𐑟 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑐𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯; 𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑑𐑧𐑯 𐑹 𐑑𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑦 𐑓𐑨𐑞𐑩𐑥𐑟 (𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑪𐑒𐑕-𐑤𐑲𐑯) 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑶𐑤𐑛 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑪𐑒𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑬𐑟, 𐑦𐑑 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑿𐑟 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑢𐑱 𐑑 𐑞 𐑜𐑳𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑓𐑻𐑞𐑼 𐑭𐑓𐑑, 𐑯 𐑦𐑟 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑩𐑑𐑨𐑗𐑑 𐑑 𐑞 𐑖𐑹𐑑-𐑢𐑹𐑐—𐑞 𐑮𐑴𐑐 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑥𐑰𐑛𐑾𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑰𐑝𐑾𐑕 𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑧𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑞 𐑖𐑹𐑑-𐑢𐑹𐑐 𐑜𐑴𐑟 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑕𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑦 𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑑𐑵 𐑑𐑰𐑛𐑾𐑕 𐑑 𐑛𐑰𐑑𐑱𐑤.</p>
    <p>𐑞𐑳𐑕 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑤𐑲𐑯 𐑓𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑟 𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑦𐑒𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑒𐑶𐑤𐑟, 𐑑𐑢𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑯 𐑮𐑲𐑞𐑦𐑙 𐑼𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯. 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑹𐑟𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑸 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑪𐑤𐑝𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑐𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑹𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟; 𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑑 𐑞 𐑑𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑛 𐑲 𐑝 𐑞 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟𐑥𐑩𐑯, 𐑞𐑱 𐑕𐑰𐑥 𐑨𐑟 ·𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑾𐑯 𐑡𐑳𐑜𐑩𐑤𐑼𐑟, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑛𐑤𐑾𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑯𐑱𐑒𐑕 𐑕𐑐𐑹𐑑𐑦𐑝𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑵𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑺 𐑤𐑦𐑥𐑟. 𐑯𐑹 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑕𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑥𐑹𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑫𐑥𐑩𐑯, 𐑓 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑑𐑲𐑥, 𐑕𐑰𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑩𐑥𐑦𐑛 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑣𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑕𐑦𐑟, 𐑯 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑳𐑑𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑹, 𐑚𐑦𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑳𐑯𐑯𐑴𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑞 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯 𐑥𐑱 𐑚𐑰 𐑛𐑸𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑣𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑹𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑚𐑰 𐑐𐑫𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑐𐑤𐑱 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑮𐑦𐑙𐑛 𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑯𐑦𐑙𐑟; 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑞𐑳𐑕 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑 𐑩 𐑖𐑳𐑛𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑱𐑒𐑕 𐑞 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑥𐑨𐑮𐑴 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑴𐑯𐑟 𐑑 𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑝𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑖𐑱𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑡𐑧𐑤𐑦. 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑚𐑦𐑑—𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡 𐑔𐑦𐑙! 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑚𐑦𐑑 𐑩𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑦𐑖?—𐑜𐑱𐑼 𐑕𐑨𐑤𐑦𐑟, 𐑥𐑹 𐑥𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑥𐑻𐑔, 𐑚𐑧𐑑𐑼 𐑡𐑴𐑒𐑕, 𐑯 𐑚𐑮𐑲𐑑𐑼 𐑮𐑧𐑐𐑸𐑑𐑰𐑟, 𐑿 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑣𐑻𐑛 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑘𐑹 𐑥𐑩𐑣𐑪𐑜𐑩𐑯𐑦, 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑿 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑣𐑽 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 𐑣𐑭𐑓-𐑦𐑯𐑗 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑛𐑼 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑚𐑴𐑑, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞𐑳𐑕 𐑣𐑳𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑙𐑥𐑩𐑯'𐑟 𐑯𐑵𐑕𐑩𐑟; 𐑯, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞 𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑕 𐑚𐑻𐑜𐑼𐑟 𐑝 ·𐑒𐑨𐑤𐑱 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 ·𐑒𐑦𐑙 ·𐑧𐑛𐑢𐑼𐑛, 𐑞 𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑕 𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑴𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑵 𐑐𐑫𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑡𐑷𐑟 𐑝 𐑛𐑧𐑔, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑣𐑷𐑤𐑑𐑼 𐑼𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑯𐑧𐑒, 𐑨𐑟 𐑿 𐑥𐑱 𐑕𐑱.</p>
    <p>𐑐𐑼𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑕 𐑩 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑔𐑷𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑯𐑬 𐑦𐑯𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑿 𐑑 𐑩𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑 𐑓 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑰𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑛𐑦𐑟𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑟—𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑓𐑿 𐑝 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑸 𐑒𐑨𐑠𐑵𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑮𐑪𐑯𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑛—𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑹 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑤𐑲𐑯, 𐑯 𐑤𐑪𐑕𐑑. 𐑓, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞 𐑤𐑲𐑯 𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑸𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑑, 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑕𐑰𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑, 𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑰𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑓𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑟𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑝 𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑥-𐑧𐑯𐑡𐑦𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑓𐑫𐑤 𐑐𐑤𐑱, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑓𐑤𐑲𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑰𐑥, 𐑯 𐑖𐑭𐑓𐑑, 𐑯 𐑢𐑰𐑤, 𐑦𐑟 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑿. 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑻𐑕; 𐑓 𐑿 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑦𐑑 𐑥𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑣𐑸𐑑 𐑝 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑐𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑟, 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑮𐑪𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑒𐑮𐑱𐑛𐑩𐑤, 𐑯 𐑿 𐑸 𐑐𐑦𐑗𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑢𐑱 𐑯 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼, 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑹𐑯𐑦𐑙; 𐑯 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑲 𐑩 𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓-𐑩𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑶𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦 𐑯 𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑤𐑑𐑱𐑯𐑾𐑕𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑝𐑴𐑤𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑯 𐑨𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑿 𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑱𐑐 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑩 ·𐑯𐑨𐑟𐑧𐑐𐑩 𐑝, 𐑯 𐑮𐑳𐑯 𐑩𐑢𐑱 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑢𐑺 𐑞 𐑷𐑤-𐑕𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑳𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑐𐑽𐑕 𐑿 𐑬𐑑.</p>
    <p>𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯: 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑒𐑭𐑥 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑐𐑨𐑮𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑰𐑛𐑟 𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑓𐑩𐑕𐑦𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑥, 𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑼𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑕 𐑥𐑹 𐑷𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑥 𐑦𐑑𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓; 𐑓, 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑰𐑛, 𐑞 𐑒𐑭𐑥 𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑮𐑨𐑐𐑼 𐑯 𐑧𐑯𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑴𐑐 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑥; 𐑯 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑱𐑯𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑦𐑑𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓, 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑸𐑥𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑮𐑲𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑟 𐑞 𐑓𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑐𐑬𐑛𐑼, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑷𐑤, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑤𐑴𐑠𐑩𐑯; 𐑕𐑴 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑕𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑴𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑤𐑲𐑯, 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑻𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑲𐑯𐑟 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑞 𐑹𐑟𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑮𐑷𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑨𐑒𐑗𐑵𐑩𐑤 𐑐𐑤𐑱—𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑦𐑟 𐑩 𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑒𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑹 𐑝 𐑑𐑮𐑵 𐑑𐑧𐑮𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑨𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑑 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑛𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑼𐑩𐑕 𐑩𐑓𐑺. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑲 𐑕𐑱 𐑥𐑹? 𐑷𐑤 𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑤𐑦𐑝 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑧𐑤𐑩𐑐𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑟. 𐑷𐑤 𐑸 𐑚𐑹𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑷𐑤𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑞𐑺 𐑯𐑧𐑒𐑕; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑒𐑷𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑓𐑑, 𐑕𐑳𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑑𐑻𐑯 𐑝 𐑛𐑧𐑔, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑹𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑮𐑾𐑤𐑲𐑟 𐑞 𐑕𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑑, 𐑕𐑳𐑑𐑩𐑤, 𐑧𐑝𐑼-𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑐𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑟 𐑝 𐑤𐑲𐑓. 𐑯 𐑦𐑓 𐑿 𐑚𐑰 𐑩 𐑓𐑦𐑤𐑪𐑕𐑩𐑓𐑼, 𐑞𐑴 𐑕𐑰𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑚𐑴𐑑, 𐑿 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑸𐑑 𐑓𐑰𐑤 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑑 𐑥𐑹 𐑝 𐑑𐑧𐑮𐑼, 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑞𐑴 𐑕𐑰𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑘𐑹 𐑰𐑝𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑲𐑼 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑐𐑴𐑒𐑼, 𐑯 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑩 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯, 𐑚𐑲 𐑘𐑹 𐑕𐑲𐑛.</p>
  </body>
</html>
