<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Chapter 96</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="chapter-96" xml:lang="en-US">
      <h2 id="chapterheader-96">·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 96. 𐑞 ·𐑑𐑮𐑲-·𐑢𐑻𐑒𐑕.</h2>
    </div>
    <p>𐑚𐑦𐑕𐑲𐑛𐑟 𐑣𐑻 𐑣𐑶𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕, 𐑩𐑯 ·𐑩𐑥𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑼 𐑦𐑟 𐑬𐑑𐑢𐑼𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑢𐑦𐑖𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑣𐑻 𐑑𐑮𐑲-𐑢𐑻𐑒𐑕. 𐑖𐑰 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑞 𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑾𐑕 𐑩𐑯𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑝 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑛 𐑥𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑼𐑦 𐑡𐑶𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑴𐑒 𐑯 𐑣𐑧𐑥𐑐 𐑦𐑯 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑰𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑖𐑦𐑐. 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑓 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑴𐑐𐑩𐑯 𐑓𐑰𐑤𐑛 𐑩 𐑚𐑮𐑦𐑒-𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑯 𐑢𐑻 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑐𐑹𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑑 𐑣𐑻 𐑐𐑤𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑕.</p>
    <p>𐑞 𐑑𐑮𐑲-𐑢𐑻𐑒𐑕 𐑸 𐑐𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑢𐑰𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑯 𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑, 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑮𐑵𐑥𐑦 𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑒. 𐑞 𐑑𐑦𐑥𐑚𐑼𐑟 𐑚𐑦𐑯𐑰𐑔 𐑸 𐑝 𐑩 𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑽 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑙𐑔, 𐑓𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑑 𐑕𐑩𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑑 𐑝 𐑩𐑯 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑛 𐑥𐑨𐑕 𐑝 𐑚𐑮𐑦𐑒 𐑯 𐑥𐑹𐑑𐑼, 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑑𐑧𐑯 𐑓𐑰𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑱𐑑 𐑕𐑒𐑢𐑺, 𐑯 𐑓𐑲𐑝 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑲𐑑. 𐑞 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑛𐑳𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑒, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑥𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑼𐑦 𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑻𐑥𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑛 𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑻𐑓𐑦𐑕 𐑚𐑲 𐑐𐑪𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑩𐑕 𐑯𐑰𐑟 𐑝 𐑲𐑼𐑯 𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑕𐑲𐑛𐑟, 𐑯 𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑑 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑑 𐑞 𐑑𐑦𐑥𐑚𐑼𐑟. 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑤𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑕 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑱𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑢𐑫𐑛, 𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑑𐑪𐑐 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑰𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑳𐑝𐑼𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑩 𐑤𐑸𐑡, 𐑕𐑤𐑴𐑐𐑦𐑙, 𐑚𐑨𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑗𐑢𐑱. 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑵𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑣𐑨𐑗 𐑢𐑰 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑴𐑟 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑑𐑮𐑲-𐑐𐑪𐑑𐑕, 𐑑𐑵 𐑦𐑯 𐑯𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑼, 𐑯 𐑰𐑗 𐑝 𐑕𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑚𐑨𐑮𐑩𐑤𐑟' 𐑒𐑩𐑐𐑨𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑦. 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑿𐑕, 𐑞𐑱 𐑸 𐑒𐑧𐑐𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑸𐑒𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑤𐑰𐑯. 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑞𐑱 𐑸 𐑐𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑖𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑕𐑴𐑐𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑯 𐑯 𐑕𐑨𐑯𐑛, 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑞𐑱 𐑖𐑲𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑦𐑯 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑕𐑦𐑤𐑝𐑼 𐑐𐑳𐑯𐑗-𐑚𐑴𐑤𐑟. 𐑛𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑯𐑲𐑑-𐑢𐑪𐑗𐑩𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑒𐑮𐑷𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑯 𐑒𐑶𐑤 𐑞𐑧𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑝𐑟 𐑩𐑢𐑱 𐑞𐑺 𐑓 𐑩 𐑯𐑨𐑐. 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑶𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑐𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑖𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑧𐑥—𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑰𐑗 𐑐𐑪𐑑, 𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑕𐑲𐑛—𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑓𐑦𐑛𐑧𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑿𐑯𐑦𐑒𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑸 𐑒𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑛 𐑪𐑯, 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 𐑲𐑼𐑯 𐑤𐑦𐑐𐑕. 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑩 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕 𐑷𐑤𐑕𐑴 𐑓 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑥𐑨𐑔𐑩𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑥𐑧𐑛𐑦𐑑𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯. 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑤𐑧𐑓𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑑𐑮𐑲-𐑐𐑪𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑕𐑴𐑐𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑥𐑰, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑒 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑸𐑒𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑓𐑨𐑒𐑑, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑡𐑦𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑑𐑮𐑦 𐑷𐑤 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦𐑟 𐑜𐑤𐑲𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑞 𐑕𐑲𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑶𐑛, 𐑥𐑲 𐑕𐑴𐑐𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑯 𐑓 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑭𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑤, 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑲𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑑𐑲𐑥.</p>
    <p>𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑵𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑓𐑲𐑼-𐑚𐑹𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑓𐑮𐑳𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑑𐑮𐑲-𐑢𐑻𐑒𐑕, 𐑞 𐑚𐑺 𐑥𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑼𐑦 𐑝 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑴𐑟𐑛, 𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑑𐑵 𐑲𐑼𐑯 𐑥𐑬𐑞𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑕𐑩𐑟, 𐑛𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑯𐑰𐑔 𐑞 𐑐𐑪𐑑𐑕. 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑥𐑬𐑞𐑟 𐑸 𐑓𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑧𐑝𐑦 𐑛𐑹𐑟 𐑝 𐑲𐑼𐑯. 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑕 𐑣𐑰𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑓𐑲𐑼 𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑿𐑯𐑦𐑒𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑑𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑑 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑒, 𐑚𐑲 𐑥𐑰𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑩 𐑖𐑨𐑤𐑴 𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑼𐑝𐑢𐑸 𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑲𐑼 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑴𐑟𐑛 𐑕𐑻𐑓𐑦𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑒𐑕. 𐑚𐑲 𐑩 𐑑𐑳𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑮𐑽, 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑼𐑝𐑢𐑸 𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑧𐑐𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑤𐑧𐑯𐑦𐑖𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼 𐑨𐑟 𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑝𐑨𐑐𐑼𐑱𐑑𐑕. 𐑞𐑺 𐑸 𐑯𐑴 𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑗𐑦𐑥𐑯𐑦𐑟; 𐑞𐑱 𐑴𐑐𐑩𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑮𐑽 𐑢𐑷𐑤. 𐑯 𐑣𐑽 𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑳𐑕 𐑜𐑴 𐑚𐑨𐑒 𐑓 𐑩 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑.</p>
    <p>𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑯𐑲𐑯 𐑴'𐑒𐑤𐑪𐑒 𐑨𐑑 𐑯𐑲𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛'𐑟 𐑑𐑮𐑲-𐑢𐑻𐑒𐑕 𐑢𐑻 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑪𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡. 𐑦𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑪𐑙𐑛 𐑑 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚 𐑑 𐑴𐑝𐑼𐑕𐑰 𐑞 𐑚𐑦𐑟𐑯𐑩𐑕.</p>
    <p>“𐑷𐑤 𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑦 𐑞𐑺? 𐑪𐑓 𐑣𐑨𐑗, 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑑 𐑣𐑻. 𐑿 𐑒𐑫𐑒, 𐑓𐑲𐑼 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑒𐑕.” 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩𐑯 𐑰𐑟𐑦 𐑔𐑦𐑙, 𐑓 𐑞 𐑒𐑸𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑼 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑔𐑮𐑳𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑖𐑱𐑝𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑕 𐑔𐑮𐑵𐑬𐑑 𐑞 𐑐𐑨𐑕𐑦𐑡. 𐑣𐑽 𐑚𐑰 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑓𐑲𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑑𐑮𐑲-𐑢𐑻𐑒𐑕 𐑣𐑨𐑕 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑓𐑧𐑛 𐑓 𐑩 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑢𐑫𐑛. 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑯𐑴 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑦𐑟 𐑿𐑟𐑛, 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑧𐑐𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑥𐑰𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑒 𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑐𐑩𐑤 𐑓𐑿𐑩𐑤. 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑢𐑻𐑛, 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑛 𐑬𐑑, 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑐, 𐑖𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑚𐑼, 𐑯𐑬 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛 𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑨𐑐𐑕 𐑹 𐑓𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑼𐑟, 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑱𐑯𐑟 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑳𐑙𐑒𐑗𐑵𐑩𐑕 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑐𐑼𐑑𐑦𐑟. 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑓𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑓𐑰𐑛 𐑞 𐑓𐑤𐑱𐑥𐑟. 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑐𐑤𐑧𐑔𐑹𐑦𐑒 𐑚𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑸𐑑𐑼, 𐑹 𐑩 𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓-𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑿𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑔𐑮𐑴𐑐, 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕 𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑤𐑲𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯 𐑓𐑿𐑩𐑤 𐑯 𐑚𐑻𐑯𐑟 𐑚𐑲 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦. 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑿𐑥𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯 𐑕𐑥𐑴𐑒! 𐑓 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑥𐑴𐑒 𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑣𐑱𐑤, 𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑣𐑱𐑤 𐑦𐑑 𐑿 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑, 𐑯 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑞𐑨𐑑, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑿 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑤𐑦𐑝 𐑦𐑯 𐑦𐑑 𐑓 𐑞 𐑑𐑲𐑥. 𐑦𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑩𐑯 𐑳𐑯𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤, 𐑢𐑲𐑤𐑛, ·𐑣𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑵 𐑴𐑛𐑼 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑦𐑑, 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑨𐑟 𐑥𐑱 𐑤𐑻𐑒 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑝𐑦𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑓𐑿𐑯𐑽𐑾𐑤 𐑐𐑲𐑼𐑟. 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑥𐑧𐑤𐑟 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞 𐑤𐑧𐑓𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑞 𐑛𐑱 𐑝 𐑡𐑳𐑡𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑; 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑩𐑯 𐑸𐑜𐑿𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑓 𐑞 𐑐𐑦𐑑.</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑲 𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑯𐑲𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑒𐑕 𐑢𐑻 𐑦𐑯 𐑓𐑫𐑤 𐑪𐑐𐑼𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯. 𐑢𐑰 𐑢𐑻 𐑒𐑤𐑽 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑒𐑸𐑒𐑩𐑕; 𐑕𐑱𐑤 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑥𐑱𐑛; 𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑙; 𐑞 𐑢𐑲𐑤𐑛 𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑛𐑸𐑒𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑕. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑛𐑸𐑒𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑤𐑦𐑒𐑑 𐑳𐑐 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑓𐑽𐑕 𐑓𐑤𐑱𐑥𐑟, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑓𐑹𐑒𐑑 𐑓𐑹𐑔 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑕𐑫𐑑𐑦 𐑓𐑤𐑵𐑟, 𐑯 𐑦𐑤𐑵𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑤𐑪𐑓𐑑𐑦 𐑮𐑴𐑐 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑦𐑙, 𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑓𐑱𐑥𐑛 ·𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑒 𐑓𐑲𐑼. 𐑞 𐑚𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑛𐑮𐑴𐑝 𐑪𐑯, 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑓 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑹𐑕𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑡𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑛𐑰𐑛. 𐑕𐑴 𐑞 𐑐𐑦𐑗 𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑤𐑓𐑼-𐑓𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑣𐑲𐑛𐑮𐑲𐑴𐑑, ·𐑒𐑱𐑯𐑼𐑦𐑕, 𐑦𐑖𐑿𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞𐑺 𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑯𐑲𐑑 𐑣𐑸𐑚𐑼𐑟, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑚𐑮𐑷𐑛 𐑖𐑰𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑓𐑤𐑱𐑥 𐑓 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑟, 𐑚𐑹 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑑𐑻𐑒𐑦𐑖 𐑓𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑩𐑑𐑕, 𐑯 𐑓𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑦𐑯 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑓𐑤𐑩𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟.</p>
    <p>𐑞 𐑣𐑨𐑗, 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑵𐑝𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑑𐑪𐑐 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑒𐑕, 𐑯𐑬 𐑩𐑓𐑹𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑩 𐑢𐑲𐑛 𐑣𐑸𐑔 𐑦𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑳𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑞𐑧𐑥. 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑻 𐑞 ·𐑑𐑸𐑑𐑼𐑾𐑯 𐑖𐑱𐑐𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑐𐑱𐑜𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽𐑟, 𐑷𐑤𐑢𐑱𐑟 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑖𐑦𐑐'𐑕 𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑒𐑼𐑟. 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑿𐑡 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑙𐑛 𐑐𐑴𐑤𐑟 𐑞𐑱 𐑐𐑦𐑗𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑨𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑝 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑚𐑼 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑕𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑐𐑪𐑑𐑕, 𐑹 𐑕𐑑𐑻𐑛 𐑳𐑐 𐑞 𐑓𐑲𐑼𐑟 𐑚𐑦𐑯𐑰𐑔, 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑞 𐑕𐑯𐑱𐑒𐑦 𐑓𐑤𐑱𐑥𐑟 𐑛𐑸𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑒𐑻𐑤𐑦𐑙, 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑛𐑹𐑟 𐑑 𐑒𐑨𐑗 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑓𐑰𐑑. 𐑞 𐑕𐑥𐑴𐑒 𐑮𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑩𐑢𐑱 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑤𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑰𐑐𐑕. 𐑑 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑐𐑦𐑗 𐑝 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑐𐑦𐑗 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑶𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑶𐑤, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑷𐑤 𐑰𐑜𐑼𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑑 𐑤𐑰𐑐 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞𐑺 𐑓𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑟. 𐑪𐑐𐑩𐑟𐑦𐑑 𐑞 𐑥𐑬𐑔 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑒𐑕, 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑞𐑼 𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑲𐑛 𐑢𐑫𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑸𐑔, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑩𐑕. 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑕𐑻𐑝𐑛 𐑓 𐑩 𐑕𐑰-𐑕𐑴𐑓𐑩. 𐑣𐑽 𐑤𐑬𐑯𐑡𐑛 𐑞 𐑢𐑪𐑗, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑳𐑞𐑼𐑢𐑲𐑟 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑶𐑛, 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑮𐑧𐑛 𐑣𐑰𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑓𐑲𐑼, 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑞𐑺 𐑲𐑟 𐑓𐑧𐑤𐑑 𐑕𐑒𐑹𐑗𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑟. 𐑞𐑺 𐑑𐑷𐑯𐑦 𐑓𐑰𐑗𐑼𐑟, 𐑯𐑬 𐑷𐑤 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑮𐑲𐑥𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑕𐑥𐑴𐑒 𐑯 𐑕𐑢𐑧𐑑, 𐑞𐑺 𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑽𐑛𐑟, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑸𐑚𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑒 𐑚𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑾𐑯𐑕𐑦 𐑝 𐑞𐑺 𐑑𐑰𐑔, 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑰𐑤𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑩𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑕 𐑦𐑥𐑚𐑤𐑱𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑒𐑕. 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑱 𐑯𐑼𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑑 𐑰𐑗 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑞𐑺 𐑳𐑯𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑛𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑗𐑼𐑟, 𐑞𐑺 𐑑𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑝 𐑑𐑧𐑮𐑼 𐑑𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑻𐑛𐑟 𐑝 𐑥𐑻𐑔; 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑺 𐑳𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑤𐑲𐑟𐑛 𐑤𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑓𐑹𐑒𐑑 𐑳𐑐𐑢𐑼𐑛𐑟 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑞𐑧𐑥, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞 𐑓𐑤𐑱𐑥𐑟 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑕; 𐑨𐑟 𐑑 𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑴, 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑓𐑮𐑳𐑯𐑑, 𐑞 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽𐑟 𐑢𐑲𐑤𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑡𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑺 𐑣𐑿𐑡 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑙𐑛 𐑓𐑹𐑒𐑕 𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑐𐑼𐑟; 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑬𐑤𐑛 𐑪𐑯, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑰 𐑤𐑰𐑐𐑑, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑜𐑮𐑴𐑯𐑛 𐑯 𐑛𐑲𐑝𐑛, 𐑯 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑛𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑖𐑪𐑑 𐑣𐑻 𐑮𐑧𐑛 𐑣𐑧𐑤 𐑓𐑻𐑞𐑼 𐑯 𐑓𐑻𐑞𐑼 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑰 𐑯 𐑞 𐑯𐑲𐑑, 𐑯 𐑕𐑒𐑹𐑯𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑗𐑨𐑥𐑐𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑚𐑴𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑻 𐑥𐑬𐑔, 𐑯 𐑝𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑐𐑨𐑑 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑻 𐑪𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑕𐑲𐑛𐑟; 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑞 𐑮𐑳𐑖𐑦𐑙 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛, 𐑓𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑕𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑟, 𐑯 𐑤𐑱𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑓𐑲𐑼, 𐑯 𐑚𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑒𐑹𐑐𐑕, 𐑯 𐑐𐑤𐑳𐑯𐑡𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑛𐑸𐑒𐑯𐑩𐑕, 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑞 𐑥𐑩𐑑𐑽𐑾𐑤 𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑻 𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑩𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑦𐑨𐑒 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑛𐑼'𐑟 𐑕𐑴𐑤.</p>
    <p>𐑕𐑴 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑑 𐑥𐑰, 𐑨𐑟 𐑲 𐑕𐑑𐑫𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑻 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑥, 𐑯 𐑓 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑬𐑼𐑟 𐑕𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑜𐑲𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑞 𐑢𐑱 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑓𐑲𐑼-𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑰. 𐑮𐑨𐑐𐑑, 𐑓 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑝𐑩𐑤, 𐑦𐑯 𐑛𐑸𐑒𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑥𐑲𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓, 𐑲 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑧𐑑𐑼 𐑕𐑷 𐑞 𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑯𐑩𐑕, 𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑛𐑯𐑩𐑕, 𐑞 𐑜𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑤𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑳𐑞𐑼𐑟. 𐑞 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑿𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑲𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑓𐑰𐑯𐑛 𐑖𐑱𐑐𐑕 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑥𐑰, 𐑒𐑱𐑐𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑭𐑓 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑥𐑴𐑒 𐑯 𐑣𐑭𐑓 𐑦𐑯 𐑓𐑲𐑼, 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑨𐑑 𐑒𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑛 𐑝𐑦𐑠𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑲 𐑕𐑴𐑤, 𐑕𐑴 𐑕𐑵𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑲 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑨𐑯 𐑑 𐑘𐑰𐑤𐑛 𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑳𐑯𐑩𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑛𐑮𐑬𐑟𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑥𐑰 𐑨𐑑 𐑩 𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑯𐑲𐑑 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑥.</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑯𐑲𐑑, 𐑦𐑯 𐑐𐑼𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑼, 𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡 (𐑯 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑕 𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑤𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤) 𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑒𐑻𐑛 𐑑 𐑥𐑰. 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑩 𐑚𐑮𐑰𐑓 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐, 𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑣𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑪𐑙. 𐑞 𐑡𐑷-𐑚𐑴𐑯 𐑑𐑦𐑤𐑼 𐑕𐑥𐑴𐑑 𐑥𐑲 𐑕𐑲𐑛, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑤𐑰𐑯𐑛 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑑; 𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑲 𐑽𐑟 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑤𐑴 𐑣𐑳𐑥 𐑝 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑟, 𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑖𐑱𐑒 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛; 𐑲 𐑔𐑷𐑑 𐑥𐑲 𐑲𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑴𐑐𐑩𐑯; 𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑣𐑭𐑓 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑐𐑫𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑲 𐑓𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑼𐑟 𐑑 𐑞 𐑤𐑦𐑛𐑟 𐑯 𐑥𐑦𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑓𐑻𐑞𐑼 𐑩𐑐𐑸𐑑. 𐑚𐑳𐑑, 𐑕𐑐𐑲𐑑 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑦𐑕, 𐑲 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑕𐑰 𐑯𐑴 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑕 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑥𐑰 𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑽 𐑚𐑲; 𐑞𐑴 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑕 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑒𐑸𐑛, 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑛𐑦 𐑚𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑤𐑨𐑥𐑐 𐑦𐑤𐑵𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑑. 𐑯𐑳𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑥𐑰 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 𐑡𐑧𐑑 𐑜𐑤𐑵𐑥, 𐑯𐑬 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑜𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑲 𐑓𐑤𐑨𐑖𐑩𐑟 𐑝 𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑯𐑩𐑕. 𐑳𐑐𐑼𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑑𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑓𐑑, 𐑮𐑳𐑖𐑦𐑙 𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑲 𐑕𐑑𐑫𐑛 𐑪𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑴 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑚𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑣𐑱𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑩𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑨𐑟 𐑮𐑳𐑖𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑱𐑝𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑩𐑕𐑑𐑻𐑯. 𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑒, 𐑚𐑦𐑢𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑼𐑛 𐑓𐑰𐑤𐑦𐑙, 𐑨𐑟 𐑝 𐑛𐑧𐑔, 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑥𐑰. 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑝𐑳𐑤𐑕𐑦𐑝𐑤𐑦 𐑥𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑜𐑮𐑭𐑕𐑐𐑑 𐑞 𐑑𐑦𐑤𐑼, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑱𐑟𐑦 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑰𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑑𐑦𐑤𐑼 𐑢𐑪𐑟, 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑣𐑬, 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑦𐑯𐑗𐑭𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑱, 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑛. 𐑥𐑲 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛! 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑼 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑥𐑰? 𐑔𐑷𐑑 𐑲. 𐑤𐑴! 𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑲 𐑚𐑮𐑰𐑓 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑛 𐑥𐑲𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑, 𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑓𐑮𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐'𐑕 𐑕𐑑𐑻𐑯, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑥𐑲 𐑚𐑨𐑒 𐑑 𐑣𐑻 𐑐𐑮𐑬 𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑕. 𐑦𐑯 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑲 𐑓𐑱𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑨𐑒, 𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑞 𐑝𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑤 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑓𐑤𐑲𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑐 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛, 𐑯 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑚𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑕𐑲𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑻. 𐑣𐑬 𐑜𐑤𐑨𐑛 𐑯 𐑣𐑬 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑰𐑓 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑳𐑯𐑯𐑨𐑗𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑣𐑩𐑤𐑵𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑯𐑲𐑑, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑡𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦 𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑮𐑷𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑤𐑰!</p>
    <p>𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑑𐑵 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑱𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑓𐑲𐑼, 𐑴 𐑥𐑨𐑯! 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑛𐑮𐑰𐑥 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑥! 𐑑𐑻𐑯 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑞𐑲 𐑚𐑨𐑒 𐑑 𐑞 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑕; 𐑩𐑒𐑕𐑧𐑐𐑑 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑑𐑦𐑤𐑼; 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑰𐑝 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑞 𐑸𐑑𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑤 𐑓𐑲𐑼, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑥𐑱𐑒𐑕 𐑷𐑤 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑜𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑤𐑦. 𐑑-𐑥𐑪𐑮𐑴, 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑯𐑨𐑗𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑳𐑯, 𐑞 𐑕𐑒𐑲𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑚𐑰 𐑚𐑮𐑲𐑑; 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑣𐑵 𐑜𐑤𐑺𐑛 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑛𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑹𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑤𐑱𐑥𐑟, 𐑞 𐑥𐑹𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑖𐑴 𐑦𐑯 𐑓𐑸 𐑳𐑞𐑼, 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑰𐑕𐑑 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑼, 𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑰𐑓; 𐑞 𐑜𐑤𐑹𐑾𐑕, 𐑜𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑩𐑯, 𐑜𐑤𐑨𐑛 𐑕𐑳𐑯, 𐑞 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑑𐑮𐑵 𐑤𐑨𐑥𐑐—𐑷𐑤 𐑳𐑞𐑼𐑟 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑼𐑟!</p>
    <p>𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑞𐑩𐑤𐑧𐑕 𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑯 𐑣𐑲𐑛𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 ·𐑝𐑼𐑡𐑦𐑯𐑾'𐑟 ·𐑛𐑦𐑟𐑥𐑩𐑤 ·𐑕𐑢𐑪𐑥𐑐, 𐑯𐑹 ·𐑮𐑴𐑥'𐑟 𐑩𐑒𐑻𐑕𐑩𐑛 ·𐑒𐑨𐑥𐑐𐑭𐑯𐑘𐑩, 𐑯𐑹 𐑢𐑲𐑛 ·𐑕𐑩𐑣𐑸𐑩, 𐑯𐑹 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑥𐑦𐑤𐑾𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑥𐑲𐑤𐑟 𐑝 𐑛𐑧𐑟𐑼𐑑𐑕 𐑯 𐑝 𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑓𐑕 𐑚𐑦𐑯𐑰𐑔 𐑞 𐑥𐑵𐑯. 𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑯 𐑣𐑲𐑛𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑞 𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑛𐑸𐑒 𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑻𐑔, 𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑵 𐑔𐑻𐑛𐑟 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑻𐑔. 𐑕𐑴, 𐑞𐑺𐑓𐑹, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑹𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑣𐑵 𐑣𐑨𐑔 𐑥𐑹 𐑝 𐑡𐑶 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑕𐑪𐑮𐑴 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑹𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑑𐑮𐑵—𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑑𐑮𐑵, 𐑹 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑝𐑧𐑤𐑩𐑐𐑑. 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑚𐑫𐑒𐑕 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑥. 𐑞 𐑑𐑮𐑵𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 ·𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑝 ·𐑕𐑪𐑮𐑴𐑟, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑑𐑮𐑵𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑚𐑫𐑒𐑕 𐑦𐑟 ·𐑕𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑥𐑩𐑯'𐑟, 𐑯 ·𐑧𐑒𐑤𐑰𐑟𐑦𐑨𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑓𐑲𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑥𐑼𐑛 𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤 𐑝 𐑢𐑴. “𐑷𐑤 𐑦𐑟 𐑝𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑦.” 𐑷𐑤. 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑦𐑤𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑔 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑜𐑪𐑑 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑝 ·𐑳𐑯𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑗𐑩𐑯 ·𐑕𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑥𐑩𐑯'𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑟𐑛𐑩𐑥 𐑘𐑧𐑑. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑵 𐑛𐑪𐑡𐑩𐑟 𐑣𐑪𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑯 𐑡𐑱𐑤𐑟, 𐑯 𐑢𐑷𐑒𐑕 𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑒𐑮𐑪𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑝𐑘𐑸𐑛𐑟, 𐑯 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑮𐑭𐑞𐑼 𐑑𐑷𐑒 𐑝 𐑪𐑐𐑼𐑩𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑣𐑧𐑤; 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑟 ·𐑒𐑵𐑐𐑼, ·𐑘𐑳𐑙, ·𐑐𐑨𐑕𐑒𐑭𐑤, ·𐑮𐑵𐑕𐑴, 𐑐𐑫𐑼 𐑛𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑷𐑤 𐑝 𐑕𐑦𐑒 𐑥𐑧𐑯; 𐑯 𐑔𐑮𐑵𐑬𐑑 𐑩 𐑒𐑺-𐑓𐑮𐑰 𐑤𐑲𐑓𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑕𐑢𐑺𐑟 𐑚𐑲 ·𐑮𐑭𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑱 𐑨𐑟 𐑐𐑭𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑲𐑟, 𐑯 𐑞𐑺𐑓𐑹 𐑡𐑪𐑤𐑦;—𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑑 𐑕𐑦𐑑 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑪𐑯 𐑑𐑵𐑥-𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑯𐑟, 𐑯 𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑒 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑯 𐑛𐑨𐑥𐑐 𐑥𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑳𐑯𐑓𐑨𐑞𐑩𐑥𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑕 ·𐑕𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑥𐑩𐑯.</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 ·𐑕𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑥𐑩𐑯, 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑧𐑟, “𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑩𐑔 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑱 𐑝 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑖𐑨𐑤 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑱𐑯” (<i>𐑲𐑰</i>, 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑙) “𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑪𐑙𐑜𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑛.” 𐑜𐑦𐑝 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑞𐑲𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑳𐑐, 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑑 𐑓𐑲𐑼, 𐑤𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑻𐑑 𐑞𐑰, 𐑛𐑧𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑞𐑰; 𐑨𐑟 𐑓 𐑞 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑦𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑥𐑰. 𐑞𐑺 𐑦𐑟 𐑩 𐑢𐑦𐑟𐑛𐑩𐑥 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑴; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑦𐑟 𐑩 𐑢𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑨𐑛𐑯𐑩𐑕. 𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑦𐑟 𐑩 ·𐑒𐑨𐑑𐑕𐑒𐑦𐑤 𐑰𐑜𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑕𐑴𐑤𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑩𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑛𐑲𐑝 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑜𐑹𐑡𐑩𐑟, 𐑯 𐑕𐑹 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯 𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑦𐑟𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑯𐑦 𐑕𐑐𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑟. 𐑯 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑓 𐑣𐑰 𐑓 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑓𐑤𐑲𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑜𐑹𐑡, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑜𐑹𐑡 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑟; 𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑴𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑢𐑵𐑐 𐑞 𐑥𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑰𐑜𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑣𐑲𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑚𐑻𐑛𐑟 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯, 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑞𐑴 𐑞𐑱 𐑕𐑹.</p>
  </body>
</html>
