<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Chapter 119</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="chapter-119" xml:lang="en-US">
      <h2 id="chapterheader-119">·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 119. 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑤𐑟.</h2>
    </div>
    <p>𐑢𐑹𐑥𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑒𐑤𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑯𐑻𐑕 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑩𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑓𐑨𐑙𐑟: 𐑞 𐑑𐑲𐑜𐑼 𐑝 ·𐑚𐑧𐑯𐑜𐑨𐑤 𐑒𐑮𐑬𐑗𐑩𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑐𐑲𐑕𐑑 𐑜𐑮𐑴𐑝𐑟 𐑝 𐑕𐑰𐑕𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑝𐑻𐑡𐑼. 𐑕𐑒𐑲𐑟 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑓𐑳𐑤𐑡𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑚𐑭𐑕𐑒𐑩𐑑 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑛𐑤𐑾𐑕𐑑 𐑔𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑟: 𐑜𐑹𐑡𐑩𐑕 ·𐑒𐑿𐑚𐑩 𐑯𐑴𐑟 𐑑𐑹𐑯𐑱𐑛𐑴𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑕𐑢𐑧𐑐𐑑 𐑑𐑱𐑥 𐑯𐑹𐑞𐑼𐑯 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟. 𐑕𐑴, 𐑑𐑵, 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑤𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑 ·𐑡𐑨𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑰𐑟 𐑕𐑰𐑟 𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑯𐑼 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑞 𐑛𐑲𐑼𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑥𐑟, 𐑞 ·𐑑𐑲𐑓𐑵𐑯. 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑚𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑬𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑒𐑤𐑬𐑛𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑕𐑒𐑲, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑤𐑴𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑪𐑥 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑩 𐑛𐑱𐑟𐑛 𐑯 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐𐑦 𐑑𐑬𐑯.</p>
    <p>𐑑𐑩𐑢𐑹𐑛𐑟 𐑰𐑝𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑛𐑱, 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑑𐑹𐑯 𐑝 𐑣𐑻 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑝𐑩𐑕, 𐑯 𐑚𐑺-𐑐𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑤𐑧𐑓𐑑 𐑑 𐑓𐑲𐑑 𐑩 ·𐑑𐑲𐑓𐑵𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑒 𐑣𐑻 𐑛𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑣𐑧𐑛. 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑛𐑸𐑒𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑪𐑯, 𐑕𐑒𐑲 𐑯 𐑕𐑰 𐑮𐑹𐑛 𐑯 𐑕𐑐𐑤𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑔𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼, 𐑯 𐑚𐑤𐑱𐑟𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑯𐑦𐑙, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑖𐑴𐑛 𐑞 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑕 𐑓𐑤𐑳𐑑𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑽 𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑮𐑨𐑜𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑓𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑦 𐑝 𐑞 𐑑𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑦𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑤𐑧𐑓𐑑 𐑓 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑕𐑐𐑹𐑑.</p>
    <p>𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑲 𐑩 𐑖𐑮𐑬𐑛, ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑢𐑹𐑑𐑼-𐑛𐑧𐑒; 𐑨𐑑 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑓𐑤𐑨𐑖 𐑝 𐑞 𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑜𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑓𐑑, 𐑑 𐑕𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑩𐑛𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑛𐑦𐑟𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑼 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑷𐑤𐑩𐑯 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑥𐑐𐑼 𐑞𐑺; 𐑢𐑲𐑤 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚 𐑯 ·𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒 𐑢𐑻 𐑛𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑣𐑲𐑼 𐑣𐑶𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑯 𐑓𐑻𐑥𐑼 𐑤𐑨𐑖𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑺 𐑐𐑱𐑯𐑟 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑯𐑷𐑑. 𐑞𐑴 𐑤𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑑 𐑞 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑑𐑪𐑐 𐑝 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑟, 𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑢𐑼𐑛 𐑒𐑢𐑹𐑑𐑼 𐑚𐑴𐑑 (·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚'𐑟) 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑱𐑐. 𐑩 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑮𐑴𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑰, 𐑛𐑨𐑖𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑲 𐑳𐑐 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑞 𐑮𐑰𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑖𐑦𐑐'𐑕 𐑣𐑲 𐑑𐑰𐑑𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑲𐑛, 𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑝 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑'𐑕 𐑚𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑥 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑻𐑯, 𐑯 𐑤𐑧𐑓𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯, 𐑷𐑤 𐑛𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑕𐑦𐑝.</p>
    <p>“𐑚𐑨𐑛 𐑢𐑻𐑒, 𐑚𐑨𐑛 𐑢𐑻𐑒! ·𐑥𐑼 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚, 𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑸𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑮𐑧𐑒, “𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑰 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑢𐑱. 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚, 𐑓 𐑢𐑳𐑯, 𐑒𐑭𐑯𐑑 𐑓𐑲𐑑 𐑦𐑑. 𐑿 𐑕𐑰, ·𐑥𐑼 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒, 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑝 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑦𐑑 𐑤𐑰𐑐𐑕, 𐑷𐑤 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑮𐑳𐑯𐑟, 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑟 𐑞 𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑙! 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑓 𐑥𐑰, 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑑 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑓 𐑑 𐑥𐑰𐑑 𐑦𐑑, 𐑦𐑟 𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑩𐑒𐑮𐑪𐑕 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑒 𐑣𐑽. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛; 𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑷𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑓𐑳𐑯: 𐑕𐑴 𐑞 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑕𐑪𐑙 𐑕𐑧𐑟;”—(<i>𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑟</i>.)</p>
    <p>“𐑩𐑝𐑭𐑕𐑑 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚,” 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒, “𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑑𐑲𐑓𐑵𐑯 𐑕𐑦𐑙, 𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑒 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑸𐑐 𐑣𐑽 𐑦𐑯 𐑬𐑼 𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑦𐑙; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑓 𐑞𐑬 𐑸𐑑 𐑩 𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑝 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑞𐑬 𐑢𐑦𐑤𐑑 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑞𐑲 𐑐𐑰𐑕.”</p>
    <p>“𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑲 𐑨𐑥 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑩 𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑝 𐑥𐑨𐑯; 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑝 𐑥𐑨𐑯; 𐑲 𐑨𐑥 𐑩 𐑒𐑬𐑼𐑛; 𐑯 𐑲 𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑒𐑰𐑐 𐑳𐑐 𐑥𐑲 𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑕. 𐑯 𐑲 𐑑𐑧𐑤 𐑿 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟, ·𐑥𐑼 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒, 𐑞𐑺'𐑟 𐑯𐑴 𐑢𐑱 𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑪𐑐 𐑥𐑲 𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑑 𐑒𐑳𐑑 𐑥𐑲 𐑔𐑮𐑴𐑑. 𐑯 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑'𐑕 𐑛𐑳𐑯, 𐑑𐑧𐑯 𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑲 𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑘𐑰 𐑞 𐑛𐑪𐑒𐑕𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑡𐑦 𐑓 𐑩 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛-𐑳𐑐.”</p>
    <p>“𐑥𐑨𐑛𐑥𐑩𐑯! 𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑥𐑲 𐑲𐑟 𐑦𐑓 𐑞𐑬 𐑣𐑨𐑕𐑑 𐑯𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞𐑲𐑯 𐑴𐑯.”</p>
    <p>“𐑢𐑪𐑑! 𐑣𐑬 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑿 𐑕𐑰 𐑚𐑧𐑑𐑼 𐑝 𐑩 𐑛𐑸𐑒 𐑯𐑲𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑧𐑯𐑦𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦 𐑧𐑤𐑕, 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑬 𐑓𐑵𐑤𐑦𐑖?”</p>
    <p>“𐑣𐑽!” 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒, 𐑕𐑰𐑟𐑦𐑙 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑖𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑼, 𐑯 𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑑𐑩𐑢𐑹𐑛𐑟 𐑞 𐑢𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑚𐑬, “𐑥𐑸𐑒𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑬 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑜𐑱𐑤 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑟 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑰𐑕𐑑𐑢𐑼𐑛, 𐑞 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑒𐑹𐑕 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑦𐑟 𐑑 𐑮𐑳𐑯 𐑓 ·𐑥𐑪𐑚𐑦 ·𐑛𐑦𐑒? 𐑞 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑒𐑹𐑕 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑢𐑳𐑙 𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑛𐑱 𐑯𐑵𐑯? 𐑯𐑬 𐑥𐑸𐑒 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑞𐑺; 𐑢𐑺 𐑦𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑝? 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑻𐑯-𐑖𐑰𐑑𐑕, 𐑥𐑨𐑯; 𐑢𐑺 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛—𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛-𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑝, 𐑥𐑨𐑯! 𐑯𐑬 𐑡𐑳𐑥𐑐 𐑴𐑝𐑼𐑚𐑹𐑛, 𐑯 𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑢𐑱, 𐑦𐑓 𐑞𐑬 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑!</p>
    <p>“𐑲 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑣𐑭𐑓 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑘𐑰: 𐑢𐑪𐑑'𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛?”</p>
    <p>“𐑘𐑧𐑕, 𐑘𐑧𐑕, 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑱𐑐 𐑝 𐑜𐑫𐑛 ·𐑣𐑴𐑐 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑖𐑹𐑑𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑱 𐑑 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑,” 𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑤𐑩𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑟𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒 𐑕𐑳𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦, 𐑣𐑰𐑛𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑝 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚'𐑟 𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑕𐑗𐑩𐑯. “𐑞 𐑜𐑱𐑤 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑯𐑬 𐑣𐑨𐑥𐑼𐑟 𐑨𐑑 𐑳𐑕 𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑝 𐑳𐑕, 𐑢𐑰 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑑𐑻𐑯 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑩 𐑓𐑺 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑛𐑮𐑲𐑝 𐑳𐑕 𐑑𐑩𐑢𐑹𐑛𐑟 𐑣𐑴𐑥. 𐑘𐑪𐑯𐑛𐑼, 𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑢𐑼𐑛, 𐑷𐑤 𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑛𐑵𐑥; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑑 𐑤𐑰𐑢𐑼𐑛, 𐑣𐑴𐑥𐑢𐑼𐑛—𐑲 𐑕𐑰 𐑦𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑳𐑐 𐑞𐑺; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑯𐑦𐑙.”</p>
    <p>𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑝 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑛𐑸𐑒𐑯𐑩𐑕, 𐑓𐑪𐑤𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑓𐑤𐑨𐑖𐑩𐑟, 𐑩 𐑝𐑶𐑕 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑣𐑻𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑲𐑛; 𐑯 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑩 𐑝𐑪𐑤𐑦 𐑝 𐑔𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑐𐑰𐑤𐑟 𐑮𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑴𐑝𐑼𐑣𐑧𐑛.</p>
    <p>“𐑣𐑵'𐑟 𐑞𐑺?”</p>
    <p>“𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑔𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼!” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚, 𐑜𐑮𐑴𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑱 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑞 𐑚𐑫𐑤𐑢𐑼𐑒𐑕 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑦𐑝𐑩𐑑-𐑣𐑴𐑤; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑭𐑔 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑚𐑲 𐑧𐑤𐑚𐑴𐑛 𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑝 𐑓𐑲𐑼.</p>
    <p>𐑯𐑬, 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑮𐑪𐑛 𐑑 𐑩 𐑕𐑐𐑲𐑼 𐑪𐑯 𐑖𐑹 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑑 𐑒𐑨𐑮𐑦 𐑪𐑓 𐑞 𐑐𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑓𐑤𐑵𐑦𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑕𐑶𐑤; 𐑕𐑴 𐑞 𐑒𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑛 𐑮𐑪𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑰 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑕 𐑒𐑨𐑮𐑦 𐑑 𐑰𐑗 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑, 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑑 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑳𐑒𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑛𐑳𐑒𐑑𐑼 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑛𐑧𐑐𐑔, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑥𐑱 𐑩𐑝𐑶𐑛 𐑷𐑤 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑨𐑒𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑣𐑳𐑤; 𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑥𐑹𐑴𐑝𐑼, 𐑦𐑓 𐑒𐑧𐑐𐑑 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑑𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑺, 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑚𐑰 𐑤𐑲𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑑 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑕, 𐑚𐑦𐑕𐑲𐑛𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑓𐑽𐑦𐑙 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑝 𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑦𐑙, 𐑯 𐑥𐑹 𐑹 𐑤𐑧𐑕 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑰𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑝𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑤'𐑟 𐑢𐑱 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼; 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑪𐑟 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑦𐑕, 𐑞 𐑤𐑴𐑼 𐑐𐑸𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑩 𐑖𐑦𐑐'𐑕 𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑯𐑦𐑙-𐑮𐑪𐑛𐑟 𐑸 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑷𐑤𐑢𐑱𐑟 𐑴𐑝𐑼𐑚𐑹𐑛; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑸 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑕𐑤𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑤𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑕, 𐑕𐑴 𐑨𐑟 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑞 𐑥𐑹 𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑷𐑤𐑛 𐑳𐑐 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑗𐑱𐑯𐑟 𐑬𐑑𐑕𐑲𐑛, 𐑹 𐑔𐑮𐑴𐑯 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑕𐑰, 𐑨𐑟 𐑩𐑒𐑱𐑠𐑩𐑯 𐑥𐑱 𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑼.</p>
    <p>“𐑞 𐑮𐑪𐑛𐑟! 𐑞 𐑮𐑪𐑛𐑟!” 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒 𐑑 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑵, 𐑕𐑳𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑨𐑛𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑦𐑖𐑑 𐑑 𐑝𐑦𐑡𐑦𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑝𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑛 𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑛𐑸𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑤𐑨𐑥𐑚𐑴𐑟, 𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑑 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑴𐑕𐑑. “𐑸 𐑞𐑱 𐑴𐑝𐑼𐑚𐑹𐑛? 𐑛𐑮𐑪𐑐 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑴𐑝𐑼, 𐑓𐑹 𐑯 𐑭𐑓𐑑. 𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑒!”</p>
    <p>“𐑩𐑝𐑭𐑕𐑑!” 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚; “𐑤𐑧𐑑'𐑕 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑓𐑺 𐑐𐑤𐑱 𐑣𐑽, 𐑞𐑴 𐑢𐑰 𐑚𐑰 𐑞 𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑼 𐑕𐑲𐑛. 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑲'𐑤 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑚𐑿𐑑 𐑑 𐑮𐑱𐑟 𐑮𐑪𐑛𐑟 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑙𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑤𐑱𐑟 𐑯 ·𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑰𐑟, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛 𐑥𐑱 𐑚𐑰 𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑛; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑬𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑟! 𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑚𐑰, 𐑕𐑻.”</p>
    <p>“𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑓𐑑!” 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒. “𐑞 𐑒𐑹𐑐𐑩𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕! 𐑞 𐑒𐑹𐑐𐑩𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕!”</p>
    <p>𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑘𐑸𐑛-𐑸𐑥𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑑𐑦𐑐𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑐𐑨𐑤𐑦𐑛 𐑓𐑲𐑼; 𐑯 𐑑𐑳𐑗𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑰𐑗 𐑑𐑮𐑲-𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑯𐑦𐑙-𐑮𐑪𐑛-𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑑𐑱𐑐𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑓𐑤𐑱𐑥𐑟, 𐑰𐑗 𐑝 𐑞 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑑𐑷𐑤 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑕 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑤𐑓𐑼𐑩𐑕 𐑺, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑡𐑲𐑜𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑢𐑨𐑒𐑕 𐑑𐑱𐑐𐑼𐑟 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑩𐑯 𐑷𐑤𐑑𐑼.</p>
    <p>“𐑚𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑! 𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑜𐑴!” 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚 𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑, 𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑕𐑢𐑭𐑖𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑰 𐑣𐑰𐑝𐑛 𐑳𐑐 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑮𐑭𐑓𐑑, 𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑜𐑳𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑡𐑨𐑥𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛, 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑐𐑭𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑤𐑨𐑖𐑦𐑙. “𐑚𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑑!”—𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑤𐑦𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑨𐑒𐑢𐑼𐑛 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑒, 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑳𐑐𐑤𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑲𐑟 𐑒𐑷𐑑 𐑞 𐑓𐑤𐑱𐑥𐑟; 𐑯 𐑦𐑥𐑰𐑛𐑾𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑖𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑴𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛—“𐑞 𐑒𐑹𐑐𐑩𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑥𐑻𐑕𐑦 𐑪𐑯 𐑳𐑕 𐑷𐑤!”</p>
    <p>𐑑 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼𐑟, 𐑴𐑞𐑟 𐑸 𐑣𐑬𐑕𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑢𐑻𐑛𐑟; 𐑞𐑱 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑕𐑢𐑺 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑑𐑮𐑭𐑯𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑒𐑭𐑥, 𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑑𐑰𐑔 𐑝 𐑞 𐑑𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑦𐑕𐑑; 𐑞𐑱 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑱𐑑 𐑒𐑻𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑑𐑪𐑐𐑕𐑱𐑤-𐑘𐑸𐑛-𐑸𐑥𐑟, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑱 𐑑𐑰𐑑𐑼 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑑 𐑩 𐑕𐑰𐑞𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑰; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑥𐑲 𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡𐑦𐑙𐑟, 𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑛𐑩𐑥 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑲 𐑣𐑻𐑛 𐑩 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑴𐑔 𐑢𐑧𐑯 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛'𐑟 𐑚𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑼 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑤𐑱𐑛 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐; 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 “𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑧, ·𐑥𐑰𐑯𐑦, ·𐑑𐑧𐑒𐑩𐑤 ·𐑿𐑓𐑸𐑟𐑦𐑯” 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑢𐑴𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑖𐑮𐑬𐑛𐑟 𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑹𐑛𐑦𐑡.</p>
    <p>𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑐𐑨𐑤𐑦𐑛𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑚𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑓𐑑, 𐑓𐑿 𐑢𐑻𐑛𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑣𐑻𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑗𐑭𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑒𐑮𐑵; 𐑣𐑵 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑔𐑦𐑒 𐑒𐑤𐑳𐑕𐑑𐑼 𐑕𐑑𐑫𐑛 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑴𐑒𐑕𐑩𐑤, 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑺 𐑲𐑟 𐑜𐑤𐑰𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑐𐑱𐑤 𐑓𐑪𐑕𐑓𐑼𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑕, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑓𐑸 𐑩𐑢𐑱 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑟. 𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑰𐑝𐑛 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑞 𐑜𐑴𐑕𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑲𐑑, 𐑞 𐑡𐑲𐑜𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑡𐑧𐑑 𐑯𐑰𐑜𐑮𐑴, ·𐑛𐑨𐑜𐑵, 𐑤𐑵𐑥𐑛 𐑳𐑐 𐑑 𐑔𐑮𐑲𐑕 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑮𐑾𐑤 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑗𐑼, 𐑯 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑞 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒 𐑒𐑤𐑬𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑞 𐑔𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑒𐑳𐑥. 𐑞 𐑐𐑸𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑥𐑬𐑔 𐑝 ·𐑑𐑨𐑖𐑑𐑱𐑜𐑴 𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑰𐑤𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑖𐑸𐑒-𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑑𐑰𐑔, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑤𐑦 𐑜𐑤𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑓 𐑞𐑱 𐑑𐑵 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑑𐑦𐑐𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑒𐑹𐑐𐑩𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕; 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑤𐑦𐑑 𐑳𐑐 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑰𐑑𐑼𐑯𐑨𐑗𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑤𐑲𐑑, ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜'𐑟 𐑑𐑩𐑑𐑵𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑻𐑯𐑛 𐑤𐑲𐑒 ·𐑕𐑩𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑒 𐑚𐑤𐑵 𐑓𐑤𐑱𐑥𐑟 𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦.</p>
    <p>𐑞 𐑑𐑨𐑚𐑤𐑴 𐑷𐑤 𐑢𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑐𐑨𐑤𐑦𐑛𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑓𐑑; 𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕 𐑥𐑹 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛 𐑯 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑕𐑴𐑤 𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑻 𐑛𐑧𐑒𐑕 𐑢𐑻 𐑮𐑨𐑐𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑐𐑷𐑤. 𐑩 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑹 𐑑𐑵 𐑐𐑭𐑕𐑑, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒, 𐑜𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑹𐑢𐑼𐑛, 𐑐𐑫𐑖𐑑 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑢𐑳𐑯. 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚. “𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑬 𐑯𐑬, 𐑥𐑨𐑯; 𐑲 𐑣𐑻𐑛 𐑞𐑲 𐑒𐑮𐑲; 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑪𐑙.”</p>
    <p>“𐑯𐑴, 𐑯𐑴, 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑; 𐑲 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑞 𐑒𐑹𐑐𐑩𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑥𐑻𐑕𐑦 𐑪𐑯 𐑳𐑕 𐑷𐑤; 𐑯 𐑲 𐑣𐑴𐑐 𐑞𐑱 𐑢𐑦𐑤, 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑛𐑵 𐑞𐑱 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑥𐑻𐑕𐑦 𐑪𐑯 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑓𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑟?—𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑞𐑱 𐑯𐑴 𐑚𐑬𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑓 𐑩 𐑤𐑭𐑓? 𐑯 𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑘𐑰, ·𐑥𐑼 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒—𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑑𐑵 𐑛𐑸𐑒 𐑑 𐑤𐑫𐑒. 𐑣𐑽 𐑥𐑰, 𐑞𐑧𐑯: 𐑲 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑-𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑓𐑤𐑱𐑥 𐑢𐑰 𐑕𐑷 𐑓 𐑩 𐑕𐑲𐑯 𐑝 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑤𐑳𐑒; 𐑓 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑕 𐑸 𐑮𐑵𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑜𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑗𐑪𐑒 𐑩' 𐑚𐑤𐑪𐑒 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥-𐑶𐑤, 𐑛'𐑘𐑰 𐑕𐑰; 𐑯 𐑕𐑴, 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑢𐑻𐑒 𐑳𐑐 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑕, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑕𐑨𐑐 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑑𐑮𐑰. 𐑘𐑧𐑕, 𐑬𐑼 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑕 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑨𐑟 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥𐑩𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑦 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑤𐑟—𐑞𐑨𐑑'𐑕 𐑞 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑥𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑰 𐑕𐑷.”</p>
    <p>𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒 𐑒𐑷𐑑 𐑕𐑲𐑑 𐑝 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚'𐑟 𐑓𐑱𐑕 𐑕𐑤𐑴𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑜𐑤𐑦𐑥𐑼 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑕𐑲𐑑. 𐑜𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑐𐑢𐑼𐑛𐑟, 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛: “𐑕𐑰! 𐑕𐑰!” 𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕 𐑥𐑹 𐑞 𐑣𐑲 𐑑𐑱𐑐𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑤𐑱𐑥𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑚𐑦𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑮𐑦𐑛𐑳𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑕𐑵𐑐𐑼𐑯𐑨𐑗𐑼𐑩𐑤𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑐𐑨𐑤𐑼.</p>
    <p>“𐑞 𐑒𐑹𐑐𐑩𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑥𐑻𐑕𐑦 𐑪𐑯 𐑳𐑕 𐑷𐑤,” 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚, 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯.</p>
    <p>𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑱𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑, 𐑓𐑫𐑤 𐑚𐑦𐑯𐑰𐑔 𐑞 𐑛𐑳𐑚𐑤𐑵𐑯 𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑤𐑱𐑥, 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑸𐑟𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑰𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚'𐑟 𐑓𐑮𐑳𐑯𐑑, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑚𐑬𐑛 𐑩𐑢𐑱 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑥; 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑯𐑽 𐑚𐑲, 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑸𐑗𐑑 𐑯 𐑴𐑝𐑼𐑣𐑨𐑙𐑦𐑙 𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑦𐑙, 𐑢𐑺 𐑞𐑱 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑜𐑱𐑡𐑛 𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑕𐑐𐑸, 𐑩 𐑯𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑼 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑼𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑜𐑤𐑺, 𐑯𐑬 𐑒𐑴𐑣𐑽𐑛 𐑑𐑩𐑜𐑧𐑞𐑼, 𐑯 𐑣𐑳𐑙 𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑡𐑩𐑤𐑩𐑕, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑝 𐑯𐑳𐑥𐑛 𐑢𐑪𐑕𐑐𐑕 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑩 𐑛𐑮𐑵𐑐𐑦𐑙, 𐑹𐑗𐑼𐑛 𐑑𐑢𐑦𐑜. 𐑦𐑯 𐑝𐑺𐑾𐑕 𐑦𐑯𐑗𐑭𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛𐑟, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙, 𐑹 𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑐𐑦𐑙, 𐑹 𐑮𐑳𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑒𐑧𐑤𐑩𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑣𐑼𐑒𐑘𐑩𐑤𐑱𐑯𐑾𐑥, 𐑳𐑞𐑼𐑟 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑮𐑵𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑑 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑒; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑺 𐑲𐑟 𐑳𐑐𐑒𐑭𐑕𐑑.</p>
    <p>“𐑲, 𐑲, 𐑥𐑧𐑯!” 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚. “𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑳𐑐 𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑑; 𐑥𐑸𐑒 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑧𐑤; 𐑞 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑓𐑤𐑱𐑥 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑕 𐑞 𐑢𐑱 𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑢𐑲𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤! 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑥𐑰 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑤𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑕 𐑞𐑺; 𐑲 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑓𐑱𐑯 𐑓𐑰𐑤 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑐𐑳𐑤𐑕, 𐑯 𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑥𐑲𐑯 𐑚𐑰𐑑 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑑; 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑛 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑓𐑲𐑼! 𐑕𐑴.”</p>
    <p>𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙—𐑞 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑤𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑛 𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑧𐑓𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛, 𐑣𐑰 𐑐𐑫𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑫𐑑 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑸𐑟𐑰; 𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑓𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑑 𐑳𐑐𐑢𐑼𐑛 𐑲, 𐑯 𐑣𐑲-𐑓𐑤𐑳𐑙 𐑮𐑲𐑑 𐑸𐑥, 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑑𐑫𐑛 𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑞 𐑤𐑪𐑓𐑑𐑦 𐑑𐑮𐑲-𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑓𐑤𐑱𐑥𐑟.</p>
    <p>“𐑴! 𐑞𐑬 𐑒𐑤𐑽 𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑮𐑦𐑑 𐑝 𐑒𐑤𐑽 𐑓𐑲𐑼, 𐑣𐑵𐑥 𐑪𐑯 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑕𐑰𐑟 𐑲 𐑨𐑟 ·𐑐𐑻𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑢𐑻𐑖𐑦𐑐, 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑨𐑒𐑮𐑩𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑨𐑒𐑑 𐑕𐑴 𐑚𐑻𐑯𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞𐑰, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑬𐑼 𐑲 𐑚𐑺 𐑞 𐑕𐑒𐑸; 𐑲 𐑯𐑬 𐑯𐑴 𐑞𐑰, 𐑞𐑬 𐑒𐑤𐑽 𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑮𐑦𐑑, 𐑯 𐑲 𐑯𐑬 𐑯𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑲 𐑮𐑲𐑑 𐑢𐑻𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑲𐑩𐑯𐑕. 𐑑 𐑯𐑲𐑞𐑼 𐑤𐑳𐑝 𐑯𐑹 𐑮𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑢𐑦𐑤𐑑 𐑞𐑬 𐑚𐑰 𐑒𐑲𐑯𐑛; 𐑯 𐑰'𐑩𐑯 𐑓 𐑣𐑱𐑑 𐑞𐑬 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑒𐑦𐑤; 𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑸 𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑛. 𐑯𐑴 𐑓𐑽𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑓𐑵𐑤 𐑯𐑬 𐑓𐑮𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑞𐑰. 𐑲 𐑴𐑯 𐑞𐑲 𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑗𐑤𐑩𐑕, 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑐𐑬𐑼; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑑 𐑞 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑜𐑭𐑕𐑐 𐑝 𐑥𐑲 𐑻𐑔𐑒𐑢𐑱𐑒 𐑤𐑲𐑓 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑿𐑑 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑳𐑯𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑤, 𐑳𐑯𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑜𐑮𐑩𐑤 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑰. 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑪𐑯𐑦𐑓𐑲𐑛 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑻𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑤, 𐑩 𐑐𐑻𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑨𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑣𐑽. 𐑞𐑴 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑚𐑧𐑕𐑑; 𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑟𐑴'𐑼 𐑲 𐑒𐑱𐑥; 𐑢𐑺𐑕𐑴𐑺 𐑲 𐑜𐑴; 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑲 𐑻𐑔𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑲𐑝, 𐑞 𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑻𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑨𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑰, 𐑯 𐑓𐑰𐑤𐑟 𐑣𐑻 𐑮𐑶𐑩𐑤 𐑮𐑲𐑑𐑕. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑹 𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑱𐑯, 𐑯 𐑣𐑱𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑴. 𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑲 𐑤𐑴𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑓𐑹𐑥 𐑝 𐑤𐑳𐑝, 𐑯 𐑲 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑯𐑰𐑤 𐑯 𐑒𐑦𐑕 𐑞𐑰; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑲 𐑣𐑲𐑩𐑕𐑑, 𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑨𐑟 𐑥𐑽 𐑕𐑵𐑐𐑻𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑐𐑬𐑼; 𐑯 𐑞𐑴 𐑞𐑬 𐑤𐑷𐑯𐑗𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑯𐑱𐑝𐑦𐑟 𐑝 𐑓𐑫𐑤-𐑓𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛𐑟, 𐑞𐑺'𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑽 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑑. 𐑴, 𐑞𐑬 𐑒𐑤𐑽 𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑮𐑦𐑑, 𐑝 𐑞𐑲 𐑓𐑲𐑼 𐑞𐑬 𐑥𐑱𐑛𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑰, 𐑯 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑑𐑮𐑵 𐑗𐑲𐑤𐑛 𐑝 𐑓𐑲𐑼, 𐑲 𐑚𐑮𐑰𐑞 𐑦𐑑 𐑚𐑨𐑒 𐑑 𐑞𐑰.”</p>
    <p>[<i>𐑕𐑳𐑛𐑩𐑯, 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑰𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑓𐑤𐑨𐑖𐑩𐑟 𐑝 𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑯𐑦𐑙; 𐑞 𐑯𐑲𐑯 𐑓𐑤𐑱𐑥𐑟 𐑤𐑰𐑐 𐑤𐑧𐑙𐑔𐑢𐑲𐑟 𐑑 𐑔𐑮𐑲𐑕 𐑞𐑺 𐑐𐑮𐑰𐑝𐑾𐑕 𐑣𐑲𐑑; ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑, 𐑒𐑤𐑴𐑟𐑩𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑲𐑟, 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑮𐑲𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑸𐑛 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑥.</i>]</p>
    <p>“𐑲 𐑴𐑯 𐑞𐑲 𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑗𐑤𐑩𐑕, 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑐𐑬𐑼; 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑲 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑴? 𐑯𐑹 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑮𐑳𐑙 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑥𐑰; 𐑯𐑹 𐑛𐑵 𐑲 𐑯𐑬 𐑛𐑮𐑪𐑐 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑤𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑕. 𐑞𐑬 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑛; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑲 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑜𐑮𐑴𐑐. 𐑞𐑬 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑿𐑥; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑲 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑚𐑰 𐑨𐑖𐑩𐑟. 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑞 𐑣𐑪𐑥𐑦𐑡 𐑝 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑐𐑫𐑼 𐑲𐑟, 𐑯 𐑖𐑳𐑑𐑼-𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟. 𐑲 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑦𐑑. 𐑞 𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑤𐑨𐑖𐑩𐑟 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑥𐑲 𐑕𐑒𐑳𐑤; 𐑥𐑲𐑯 𐑲-𐑚𐑷𐑤𐑟 𐑱𐑒 𐑯 𐑱𐑒; 𐑥𐑲 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑚𐑰𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑯 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑟 𐑨𐑟 𐑚𐑦𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑩𐑛, 𐑯 𐑮𐑴𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑜𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛. 𐑴, 𐑴! 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑚𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑛𐑓𐑴𐑤𐑛, 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑲 𐑑𐑷𐑒 𐑑 𐑞𐑰. 𐑤𐑲𐑑 𐑞𐑴 𐑞𐑬 𐑚𐑰, 𐑞𐑬 𐑤𐑰𐑐𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑛𐑸𐑒𐑯𐑩𐑕; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑲 𐑨𐑥 𐑛𐑸𐑒𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑤𐑰𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑤𐑲𐑑, 𐑤𐑰𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑞𐑰! 𐑞 𐑡𐑨𐑝𐑤𐑦𐑯𐑟 𐑕𐑰𐑕; 𐑴𐑐𐑩𐑯 𐑲𐑟; 𐑕𐑰, 𐑹 𐑯𐑪𐑑? 𐑞𐑺 𐑚𐑻𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑤𐑱𐑥𐑟! 𐑴, 𐑞𐑬 𐑥𐑨𐑜𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑕! 𐑯𐑬 𐑲 𐑛𐑵 𐑜𐑤𐑹𐑦 𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑲 𐑡𐑰𐑯𐑦𐑨𐑤𐑩𐑡𐑦. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑬 𐑸𐑑 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑥𐑲 𐑓𐑲𐑼𐑦 𐑓𐑭𐑞𐑼; 𐑥𐑲 𐑕𐑢𐑰𐑑 𐑥𐑳𐑞𐑼, 𐑲 𐑯𐑴 𐑯𐑪𐑑. 𐑴, 𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑩𐑤! 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑬 𐑛𐑳𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑻? 𐑞𐑺 𐑤𐑲𐑟 𐑥𐑲 𐑐𐑳𐑟𐑩𐑤; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑲𐑯 𐑦𐑟 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑼. 𐑞𐑬 𐑯𐑴𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑣𐑬 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑘𐑰, 𐑣𐑧𐑯𐑕 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑲𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑳𐑯𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑯; 𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑯𐑴𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑞𐑲 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑙, 𐑣𐑧𐑯𐑕 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑲𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑳𐑯𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑳𐑯. 𐑲 𐑯𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑝 𐑥𐑰, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑞𐑬 𐑯𐑴𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑝 𐑞𐑲𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓, 𐑴, 𐑞𐑬 𐑪𐑥𐑯𐑦𐑐𐑩𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑. 𐑞𐑺 𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑳𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑓𐑿𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑦𐑘𐑪𐑯𐑛 𐑞𐑰, 𐑞𐑬 𐑒𐑤𐑽 𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑮𐑦𐑑, 𐑑 𐑣𐑵𐑥 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑲 𐑦𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑑𐑲𐑥, 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑲 𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑝𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑥𐑦𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤. 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑞𐑰, 𐑞𐑲 𐑓𐑤𐑱𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓, 𐑥𐑲 𐑕𐑒𐑹𐑗𐑑 𐑲𐑟 𐑛𐑵 𐑛𐑦𐑥𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑰 𐑦𐑑. 𐑴, 𐑞𐑬 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑲𐑼, 𐑞𐑬 𐑣𐑻𐑥𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑥𐑹𐑾𐑤, 𐑞𐑬 𐑑𐑵 𐑣𐑨𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑲 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑿𐑯𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑮𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑤, 𐑞𐑲 𐑳𐑯𐑐𐑸𐑑𐑦𐑕𐑦𐑐𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑓. 𐑣𐑽 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑷𐑑𐑦 𐑨𐑜𐑩𐑯𐑦, 𐑲 𐑮𐑰𐑛 𐑥𐑲 𐑕𐑲𐑼. 𐑤𐑰𐑐! 𐑤𐑰𐑐 𐑳𐑐, 𐑯 𐑤𐑦𐑒 𐑞 𐑕𐑒𐑲! 𐑲 𐑤𐑰𐑐 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑰; 𐑲 𐑚𐑻𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑰; 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑓𐑱𐑯 𐑚𐑰 𐑢𐑧𐑤𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑰; 𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑲𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑲 𐑢𐑻𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑞𐑰!”</p>
    <p>“𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑! 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑!” 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒, “𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑲 𐑚𐑴𐑑, 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑥𐑨𐑯!”</p>
    <p>𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚'𐑟 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯, 𐑞 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑓𐑹𐑡𐑛 𐑨𐑑 ·𐑐𐑻𐑔'𐑕 𐑓𐑲𐑼, 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑓𐑻𐑥𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑨𐑖𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑩𐑕 𐑒𐑮𐑪𐑗, 𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑡𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑦𐑘𐑪𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑚𐑴𐑑'𐑕 𐑚𐑬; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑰 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑝 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑚𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑥 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑒𐑷𐑟𐑛 𐑞 𐑤𐑵𐑕 𐑤𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑖𐑰𐑔 𐑑 𐑛𐑮𐑪𐑐 𐑪𐑓; 𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑒𐑰𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤 𐑚𐑸𐑚 𐑞𐑺 𐑯𐑬 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑩 𐑤𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑓𐑤𐑱𐑥 𐑝 𐑐𐑱𐑤, 𐑓𐑹𐑒𐑑 𐑓𐑲𐑼. 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑕𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯 𐑚𐑻𐑯𐑛 𐑞𐑺 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑕𐑻𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑑'𐑕 𐑑𐑳𐑙, ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒 𐑜𐑮𐑭𐑕𐑐𐑑 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑸𐑥—“𐑜𐑪𐑛, ·𐑜𐑪𐑛 𐑦𐑟 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑰, 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑥𐑨𐑯; 𐑓𐑹𐑚𐑺! '𐑑𐑦𐑟 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑤 𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡! 𐑦𐑤 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑳𐑯, 𐑦𐑤 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑿𐑛; 𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑥𐑰 𐑕𐑒𐑢𐑺 𐑞 𐑘𐑸𐑛𐑟, 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑢𐑰 𐑥𐑱, 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑥𐑨𐑯, 𐑯 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑩 𐑓𐑺 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛 𐑝 𐑦𐑑 𐑣𐑴𐑥𐑢𐑼𐑛𐑟, 𐑑 𐑜𐑴 𐑪𐑯 𐑩 𐑚𐑧𐑑𐑼 𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕.”</p>
    <p>𐑴𐑝𐑼𐑣𐑽𐑦𐑙 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒, 𐑞 𐑐𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑒-𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑒𐑮𐑵 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑨𐑯 𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑟—𐑞𐑴 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑩 𐑕𐑱𐑤 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑤𐑧𐑓𐑑 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑓𐑑. 𐑓 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑩𐑜𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑱𐑑'𐑕 𐑔𐑷𐑑𐑕 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑞𐑺𐑟; 𐑞𐑱 𐑮𐑱𐑟𐑛 𐑩 𐑣𐑭𐑓 𐑥𐑿𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑒𐑮𐑲. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑛𐑨𐑖𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑮𐑨𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑕 𐑑 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑒, 𐑯 𐑕𐑯𐑨𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑚𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯, ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑢𐑱𐑝𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑑𐑹𐑗 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑞𐑧𐑥; 𐑕𐑢𐑺𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑓𐑦𐑒𐑕 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑦𐑑 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑒𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑤𐑵𐑕 𐑩 𐑮𐑴𐑐'𐑕 𐑧𐑯𐑛. 𐑐𐑧𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑓𐑲𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑨𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑑, 𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑥𐑹 𐑖𐑮𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑓𐑲𐑼𐑦 𐑛𐑸𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑛, 𐑞 𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑓𐑧𐑤 𐑚𐑨𐑒 𐑦𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑥𐑱, 𐑯 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯 𐑕𐑐𐑴𐑒:—</p>
    <p>“𐑷𐑤 𐑘𐑹 𐑴𐑞𐑟 𐑑 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑢𐑲𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑸 𐑨𐑟 𐑚𐑲𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑟 𐑥𐑲𐑯; 𐑯 𐑣𐑸𐑑, 𐑕𐑴𐑤, 𐑯 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦, 𐑤𐑳𐑙𐑟 𐑯 𐑤𐑲𐑓, 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑬𐑯𐑛. 𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑘𐑰 𐑥𐑱 𐑯𐑴 𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑑𐑿𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑣𐑸𐑑 𐑚𐑰𐑑𐑕; 𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑘𐑰 𐑣𐑽; 𐑞𐑳𐑕 𐑲 𐑚𐑤𐑴 𐑬𐑑 𐑞 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑓𐑽!” 𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑚𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑮𐑧𐑔 𐑣𐑰 𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑢𐑦𐑖𐑑 𐑞 𐑓𐑤𐑱𐑥.</p>
    <p>𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑣𐑳𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑱𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑢𐑰𐑐𐑕 𐑞 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯, 𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑓𐑤𐑲 𐑞 𐑯𐑱𐑚𐑼𐑣𐑫𐑛 𐑝 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑤𐑴𐑯, 𐑡𐑲𐑜𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑧𐑤𐑥, 𐑣𐑵𐑟 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑣𐑲𐑑 𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑙𐑔 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑮𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑴 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑞 𐑥𐑹 𐑳𐑯𐑕𐑱𐑓, 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑴 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑞 𐑥𐑹 𐑩 𐑥𐑸𐑒 𐑓 𐑔𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑚𐑴𐑤𐑑𐑕; 𐑕𐑴 𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑻𐑛𐑟 𐑝 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚'𐑟 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑝 𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑯𐑼𐑟 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑮𐑳𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑑𐑧𐑮𐑼 𐑝 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑥𐑱.</p>
  </body>
</html>
