<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Chapter 15</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="chapter-15" xml:lang="en-US">
      <h2 id="chapterheader-15">·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 15. 𐑗𐑬𐑛𐑼.</h2>
    </div>
    <p>𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑤𐑱𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑰𐑝𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 ·𐑥𐑪𐑕 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑕𐑯𐑳𐑜𐑤𐑦 𐑑 𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑼, 𐑯 ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜 𐑯 𐑲 𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑩𐑖𐑹; 𐑕𐑴 𐑢𐑰 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑩𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑯𐑴 𐑚𐑦𐑟𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑛𐑱, 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑰𐑕𐑑 𐑯𐑳𐑯 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 𐑕𐑳𐑐𐑼 𐑯 𐑩 𐑚𐑧𐑛. 𐑞 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑹𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑐𐑬𐑑𐑼-·𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑳𐑕 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑳𐑟𐑩𐑯 ·𐑣𐑴𐑟𐑱𐑩 ·𐑣𐑳𐑕𐑦 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑑𐑮𐑲 ·𐑐𐑪𐑑𐑕, 𐑣𐑵𐑥 𐑣𐑰 𐑩𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑩𐑑𐑼 𐑝 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑒𐑧𐑐𐑑 𐑣𐑴𐑑𐑧𐑤𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑷𐑤 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑, 𐑯 𐑥𐑹𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑩𐑖𐑫𐑼𐑛 𐑳𐑕 𐑞𐑨𐑑 ·𐑒𐑳𐑟𐑩𐑯 ·𐑣𐑴𐑟𐑱𐑩, 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑓𐑱𐑥𐑩𐑕 𐑓 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑗𐑬𐑛𐑼𐑟. 𐑦𐑯 𐑖𐑹𐑑, 𐑣𐑰 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑰 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑐𐑪𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑵 𐑚𐑧𐑑𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑑𐑮𐑲 𐑐𐑪𐑑-𐑤𐑳𐑒 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑑𐑮𐑲 ·𐑐𐑪𐑑𐑕. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑛𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑜𐑦𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑳𐑕 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑒𐑰𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑘𐑧𐑤𐑴 𐑢𐑺𐑣𐑬𐑕 𐑪𐑯 𐑬𐑼 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑼𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑢𐑰 𐑴𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑩 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑗𐑻𐑗 𐑑 𐑞 𐑤𐑸𐑚𐑼𐑛, 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑒𐑰𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑤𐑸𐑚𐑼𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑢𐑰 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑩 𐑒𐑹𐑯𐑼 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑼𐑛, 𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑛𐑳𐑯, 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑭𐑕𐑒 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑢𐑰 𐑥𐑧𐑑 𐑢𐑺 𐑞 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕 𐑢𐑪𐑟: 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑒𐑮𐑫𐑒𐑩𐑛 𐑛𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑐𐑳𐑟𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑳𐑕 𐑨𐑑 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑, 𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑨𐑟, 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑬𐑑𐑕𐑧𐑑, ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑘𐑧𐑤𐑴 𐑢𐑺𐑣𐑬𐑕—𐑬𐑼 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑛𐑦𐑐𐑸𐑗𐑼—𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑤𐑧𐑓𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑤𐑸𐑚𐑼𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛, 𐑢𐑺𐑨𐑟 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑕𐑑𐑫𐑛 ·𐑐𐑰𐑑𐑼 ·𐑒𐑪𐑓𐑦𐑯 𐑑 𐑕𐑱 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑼𐑛. 𐑣𐑬𐑧𐑝𐑼, 𐑚𐑲 𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑛𐑸𐑒, 𐑯 𐑯𐑬 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑯𐑪𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑐 𐑩 𐑐𐑰𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑣𐑨𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑼 𐑞 𐑢𐑱, 𐑢𐑰 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑴 𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙.</p>
    <p>𐑑𐑵 𐑦𐑯𐑹𐑥𐑩𐑕 𐑢𐑫𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑐𐑪𐑑𐑕 𐑐𐑱𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒, 𐑯 𐑕𐑩𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑨𐑕𐑩𐑟' 𐑽𐑟, 𐑕𐑢𐑳𐑙 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑪𐑕-𐑑𐑮𐑰𐑟 𐑝 𐑩𐑯 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑑𐑪𐑐-𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑, 𐑐𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑳𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑩𐑯 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑛𐑹𐑢𐑱. 𐑞 𐑣𐑹𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑪𐑕-𐑑𐑮𐑰𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑕𐑷𐑛 𐑪𐑓 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑕𐑲𐑛, 𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑑𐑪𐑐-𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑜𐑨𐑤𐑴𐑟. 𐑐𐑼𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑕 𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑝 𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑑𐑲𐑥, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑲 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑐 𐑕𐑑𐑺𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑜𐑨𐑤𐑴𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑝𐑱𐑜 𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑜𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑙. 𐑩 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑒 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑲 𐑯𐑧𐑒 𐑨𐑟 𐑲 𐑜𐑱𐑟𐑛 𐑳𐑐 𐑑 𐑞 𐑑𐑵 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑹𐑯𐑟; 𐑘𐑧𐑕, <i>𐑑𐑵</i> 𐑝 𐑞𐑧𐑥, 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑓 ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜, 𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑓 𐑥𐑰. 𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑪𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑕, 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑕 𐑲. 𐑩 ·𐑒𐑪𐑓𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑲 ·𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑰𐑐𐑼 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑲 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑐𐑹𐑑; 𐑑𐑵𐑥𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑯𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑺𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑰 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯'𐑟 𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑩𐑤; 𐑯 𐑣𐑽 𐑩 𐑜𐑨𐑤𐑴𐑟! 𐑯 𐑩 𐑐𐑺 𐑝 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑛𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑕 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒 𐑐𐑪𐑑𐑕 𐑑𐑵! 𐑸 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑔𐑮𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑑 𐑴𐑚𐑤𐑰𐑒 𐑣𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑑𐑳𐑗𐑦𐑙 ·𐑑𐑪𐑐𐑣𐑧𐑑?</p>
    <p>𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑮𐑦𐑓𐑤𐑧𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑕𐑲𐑑 𐑝 𐑩 𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑢𐑫𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑘𐑧𐑤𐑴 𐑣𐑺 𐑯 𐑩 𐑘𐑧𐑤𐑴 𐑜𐑬𐑯, 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑹𐑗 𐑝 𐑞 𐑦𐑯, 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑩 𐑛𐑳𐑤 𐑮𐑧𐑛 𐑤𐑨𐑥𐑐 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑙𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑺, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑑 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑡𐑼𐑛 𐑲, 𐑯 𐑒𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑯 𐑩 𐑚𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑒 𐑕𐑒𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑐𐑻𐑐𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑫𐑤𐑩𐑯 𐑖𐑻𐑑.</p>
    <p>“𐑜𐑧𐑑 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑘𐑰,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑖𐑰 𐑑 𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑯, “𐑹 𐑲'𐑤 𐑚𐑰 𐑒𐑴𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑘𐑰!”</p>
    <p>“𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑪𐑯, ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑲, “𐑷𐑤 𐑮𐑲𐑑. 𐑞𐑺'𐑟 ·𐑥𐑕𐑟 ·𐑣𐑳𐑕𐑦.”</p>
    <p>𐑯 𐑕𐑴 𐑦𐑑 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑛 𐑬𐑑; ·𐑥𐑼 ·𐑣𐑴𐑟𐑱𐑩 ·𐑣𐑳𐑕𐑦 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑴𐑥, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑤𐑰𐑝𐑦𐑙 ·𐑥𐑕𐑟 ·𐑣𐑳𐑕𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑲𐑼𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑐𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑑 𐑩𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑩𐑓𐑺𐑟. 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑥𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑯𐑴𐑯 𐑬𐑼 𐑛𐑦𐑟𐑲𐑼𐑟 𐑓 𐑩 𐑕𐑳𐑐𐑼 𐑯 𐑩 𐑚𐑧𐑛, ·𐑥𐑕𐑟 ·𐑣𐑳𐑕𐑦, 𐑐𐑴𐑕𐑑𐑐𐑴𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑻𐑞𐑼 𐑕𐑒𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑓 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑, 𐑳𐑖𐑼𐑛 𐑳𐑕 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑮𐑵𐑥, 𐑯 𐑕𐑰𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑕 𐑨𐑑 𐑩 𐑑𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑮𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑒𐑕 𐑝 𐑩 𐑮𐑰𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑵𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑭𐑕𐑑, 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑛 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑳𐑕 𐑯 𐑕𐑧𐑛—“𐑒𐑤𐑨𐑥 𐑹 ·𐑒𐑪𐑛?”</p>
    <p>“𐑢𐑪𐑑'𐑕 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 ·𐑒𐑪𐑛𐑟, 𐑥𐑨𐑥?” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑲, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑐𐑩𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑯𐑩𐑕.</p>
    <p>“𐑒𐑤𐑨𐑥 𐑹 ·𐑒𐑪𐑛?” 𐑖𐑰 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑰𐑑𐑩𐑛.</p>
    <p>“𐑩 𐑒𐑤𐑨𐑥 𐑓 𐑕𐑳𐑐𐑼? 𐑩 𐑒𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑒𐑤𐑨𐑥; 𐑦𐑟 <i>𐑞𐑨𐑑</i> 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑿 𐑥𐑰𐑯, ·𐑥𐑕𐑟 ·𐑣𐑳𐑕𐑦?” 𐑕𐑧𐑟 𐑲, “𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑'𐑕 𐑩 𐑮𐑭𐑞𐑼 𐑒𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑯 𐑒𐑤𐑨𐑥𐑦 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑧𐑐𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼 𐑑𐑲𐑥, 𐑱𐑯𐑑 𐑦𐑑, ·𐑥𐑕𐑟 ·𐑣𐑳𐑕𐑦?”</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑣𐑳𐑮𐑦 𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑿𐑥 𐑕𐑒𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑻𐑐𐑩𐑤 ·𐑖𐑻𐑑, 𐑣𐑵 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑢𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑓 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑦, 𐑯 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑣𐑽 𐑯𐑳𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑛 “𐑒𐑤𐑨𐑥,” ·𐑥𐑕𐑟 ·𐑣𐑳𐑕𐑦 𐑣𐑳𐑮𐑦𐑛 𐑑𐑩𐑢𐑹𐑛𐑟 𐑩𐑯 𐑴𐑐𐑩𐑯 𐑛𐑹 𐑤𐑰𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑞 𐑒𐑦𐑗𐑦𐑯, 𐑯 𐑚𐑷𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑑 “𐑒𐑤𐑨𐑥 𐑓 𐑑𐑵,” 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑽𐑛.</p>
    <p>“·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑲, “𐑛𐑵 𐑿 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑰 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑬𐑑 𐑩 𐑕𐑳𐑐𐑼 𐑓 𐑳𐑕 𐑚𐑴𐑔 𐑪𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑒𐑤𐑨𐑥?”</p>
    <p>𐑣𐑬𐑧𐑝𐑼, 𐑩 𐑢𐑹𐑥 𐑕𐑱𐑝𐑼𐑦 𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑥 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑒𐑦𐑗𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑻𐑝𐑛 𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑲 𐑞 𐑩𐑐𐑨𐑮𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑗𐑽𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑳𐑕. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑥𐑴𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑗𐑬𐑛𐑼 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑦𐑯, 𐑞 𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯𐑛. 𐑴, 𐑕𐑢𐑰𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑟! 𐑣𐑸𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑑 𐑥𐑰. 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑝 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤 𐑡𐑵𐑕𐑦 𐑒𐑤𐑨𐑥𐑟, 𐑕𐑒𐑺𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑣𐑱𐑟𐑩𐑤 𐑯𐑳𐑑𐑕, 𐑥𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑐𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑚𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑦𐑑, 𐑯 𐑕𐑷𐑤𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑐𐑹𐑒 𐑒𐑳𐑑 𐑳𐑐 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑓𐑤𐑱𐑒𐑕; 𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑮𐑦𐑗𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑚𐑳𐑑𐑼, 𐑯 𐑐𐑤𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑰𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑐𐑧𐑐𐑼 𐑯 𐑕𐑷𐑤𐑑. 𐑬𐑼 𐑨𐑐𐑩𐑑𐑲𐑑𐑕 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑖𐑸𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑕𐑑𐑦 𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡, 𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑐𐑼𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑼, ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜 𐑕𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑱𐑝𐑼𐑦𐑑 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑵𐑛 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑗𐑬𐑛𐑼 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑼𐑐𐑭𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑑, 𐑢𐑰 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑨𐑗𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑛𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯: 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑤𐑰𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑨𐑒 𐑩 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑰 𐑝 ·𐑥𐑕𐑟 ·𐑣𐑳𐑕𐑦'𐑟 𐑒𐑤𐑨𐑥 𐑯 𐑒𐑪𐑛 𐑩𐑯𐑬𐑯𐑕𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑, 𐑲 𐑔𐑷𐑑 𐑲 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑑𐑮𐑲 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑. 𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑞 𐑒𐑦𐑗𐑦𐑯 𐑛𐑹, 𐑲 𐑳𐑑𐑼𐑛 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑛 “𐑒𐑪𐑛” 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑧𐑥𐑓𐑩𐑕𐑦𐑕, 𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑿𐑥𐑛 𐑥𐑲 𐑕𐑰𐑑. 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑓𐑿 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑝𐑼𐑦 𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑥 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑓𐑹𐑔 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑓𐑤𐑱𐑝𐑼, 𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑩 𐑓𐑲𐑯 𐑒𐑪𐑛-𐑗𐑬𐑛𐑼 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑳𐑕.</p>
    <p>𐑢𐑰 𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑿𐑥𐑛 𐑚𐑦𐑟𐑯𐑩𐑕; 𐑯 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑐𐑤𐑲𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑼 𐑕𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑤, 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑕 𐑲 𐑑 𐑥𐑲𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓, 𐑲 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑯𐑬 𐑦𐑓 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑣𐑽 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑦𐑓𐑧𐑒𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑣𐑧𐑛? 𐑢𐑪𐑑'𐑕 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑤𐑑𐑦𐑓𐑲𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑱𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑗𐑬𐑛𐑼-𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑐𐑰𐑐𐑩𐑤? “𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑤𐑫𐑒, ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜, 𐑱𐑯𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑩 𐑤𐑲𐑝 𐑰𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑘𐑹 𐑚𐑴𐑤? 𐑢𐑺'𐑟 𐑘𐑹 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯?”</p>
    <p>𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑾𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑦 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 ·𐑑𐑮𐑲 ·𐑐𐑪𐑑𐑕, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑛𐑦𐑟𐑻𐑝𐑛 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑯𐑱𐑥; 𐑓 𐑞 𐑐𐑪𐑑𐑕 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑻 𐑷𐑤𐑢𐑱𐑟 𐑚𐑶𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑗𐑬𐑛𐑼𐑟. 𐑗𐑬𐑛𐑼 𐑓 𐑚𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑓𐑩𐑕𐑑, 𐑯 𐑗𐑬𐑛𐑼 𐑓 𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑼, 𐑯 𐑗𐑬𐑛𐑼 𐑓 𐑕𐑳𐑐𐑼, 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑿 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑨𐑯 𐑑 𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑓 𐑓𐑦𐑖-𐑚𐑴𐑯𐑟 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑘𐑹 𐑒𐑤𐑴𐑞𐑟. 𐑞 𐑺𐑾 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑞 𐑣𐑬𐑕 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑐𐑱𐑝𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑒𐑤𐑨𐑥-𐑖𐑧𐑤𐑟. ·𐑥𐑕𐑟 ·𐑣𐑳𐑕𐑦 𐑢𐑹 𐑩 𐑐𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑖𐑑 𐑯𐑧𐑒𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑒𐑪𐑛𐑓𐑦𐑖 𐑝𐑻𐑑𐑦𐑚𐑮𐑩; 𐑯 ·𐑣𐑴𐑟𐑱𐑩 ·𐑣𐑳𐑕𐑦 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑩𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑 𐑚𐑫𐑒𐑕 𐑚𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑵𐑐𐑽𐑽 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑖𐑸𐑒-𐑕𐑒𐑦𐑯. 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑦 𐑓𐑤𐑱𐑝𐑼 𐑑 𐑞 𐑥𐑦𐑤𐑒, 𐑑𐑵, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑲 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑩𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑 𐑓, 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑥𐑹𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑴𐑤 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑞 𐑚𐑰𐑗 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑥𐑧𐑯'𐑟 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕, 𐑲 𐑕𐑷 ·𐑣𐑴𐑟𐑱𐑩'𐑟 𐑚𐑮𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑒𐑬 𐑓𐑰𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑯 𐑓𐑦𐑖 𐑮𐑧𐑥𐑯𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕, 𐑯 𐑥𐑸𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑞 𐑕𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑰𐑗 𐑓𐑫𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑒𐑪𐑛'𐑟 𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑦𐑑𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑧𐑛, 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑕𐑤𐑦𐑐-𐑖𐑪𐑛, 𐑲 𐑩𐑖𐑫𐑼 𐑘𐑰.</p>
    <p>𐑕𐑳𐑐𐑼 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑵𐑛𐑩𐑛, 𐑢𐑰 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑰𐑝𐑛 𐑩 𐑤𐑨𐑥𐑐, 𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 ·𐑥𐑕𐑟 ·𐑣𐑳𐑕𐑦 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑯𐑽𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑱 𐑑 𐑚𐑧𐑛; 𐑚𐑳𐑑, 𐑨𐑟 ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑰𐑛 𐑥𐑰 𐑳𐑐 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑺𐑟, 𐑞 𐑤𐑱𐑛𐑦 𐑮𐑰𐑗𐑑 𐑓𐑹𐑔 𐑣𐑻 𐑸𐑥, 𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯; 𐑖𐑰 𐑩𐑤𐑬𐑛 𐑯𐑴 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑻 𐑗𐑱𐑥𐑚𐑼𐑟. “𐑢𐑲 𐑯𐑪𐑑?” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑲; “𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑑𐑮𐑵 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐𐑕 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯—𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑲 𐑯𐑪𐑑?” “𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑪𐑟 𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑛𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑼𐑩𐑕,” 𐑕𐑧𐑟 𐑖𐑰. “𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑕 𐑘𐑳𐑙 ·𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑜𐑟 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑳𐑯𐑓𐑹𐑑'𐑯𐑑 v'y'ge 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑜𐑪𐑯 𐑓𐑹 𐑘𐑽𐑟 𐑯 𐑩 𐑣𐑭𐑓, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑚𐑨𐑮𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑝 <i>𐑰𐑤</i>, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑛𐑧𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑲 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑓𐑤𐑹 𐑚𐑨𐑒, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑲𐑛; 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑕 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑲 𐑩𐑤𐑬 𐑯𐑴 𐑚𐑹𐑛𐑼𐑟 𐑑 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑑𐑦𐑗 𐑛𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑼𐑩𐑕 𐑢𐑰𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑮𐑵𐑥𐑟 𐑨𐑑 𐑯𐑲𐑑. 𐑕𐑴, ·𐑥𐑼 ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜” (𐑓 𐑖𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑤𐑻𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑱𐑥), “𐑲 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑣𐑽 𐑲𐑼𐑯, 𐑯 𐑒𐑰𐑐 𐑦𐑑 𐑓 𐑿 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑥𐑹𐑯𐑦𐑙. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑗𐑬𐑛𐑼; 𐑒𐑤𐑨𐑥 𐑹 𐑒𐑪𐑛 𐑑-𐑥𐑪𐑮𐑴 𐑓 𐑚𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑓𐑩𐑕𐑑, 𐑥𐑧𐑯?”</p>
    <p>“𐑚𐑴𐑔,” 𐑕𐑧𐑟 𐑲; “𐑯 𐑤𐑧𐑑'𐑕 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑩 𐑒𐑳𐑐𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑕𐑥𐑴𐑒𐑑 𐑣𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑲 𐑢𐑱 𐑝 𐑝𐑼𐑲𐑩𐑑𐑦.”</p>
  </body>
</html>
