<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Chapter 43</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="chapter-43" xml:lang="en-US">
      <h2 id="chapterheader-43">·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 43. 𐑣𐑸𐑒!</h2>
    </div>
    <p>“·𐑣𐑦𐑕𐑑! 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑿 𐑣𐑽 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑯𐑶𐑟, ·𐑒𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑒𐑴?”</p>
    <p>𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑤-𐑢𐑪𐑗: 𐑩 𐑓𐑺 𐑥𐑵𐑯𐑤𐑲𐑑; 𐑞 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑢𐑻 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑒𐑹𐑛𐑩𐑯, 𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑖-𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼 𐑚𐑳𐑑𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑕𐑑, 𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑒𐑳𐑑𐑩𐑤-𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑯𐑽 𐑞 𐑑𐑨𐑓𐑮𐑱𐑤. 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑼, 𐑞𐑱 𐑐𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑𐑕 𐑑 𐑓𐑦𐑤 𐑞 𐑕𐑒𐑳𐑑𐑩𐑤-𐑚𐑳𐑑. 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙, 𐑓 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑐𐑸𐑑, 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑣𐑨𐑤𐑴𐑛 𐑐𐑮𐑰𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑒𐑢𐑹𐑑𐑼-𐑛𐑧𐑒, 𐑞𐑱 𐑢𐑻 𐑒𐑺𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑒 𐑹 𐑮𐑳𐑕𐑩𐑤 𐑞𐑺 𐑓𐑰𐑑. 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛, 𐑞 𐑚𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑𐑕 𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑛𐑰𐑐𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑕, 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑮𐑴𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑩𐑒𐑱𐑠𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑓𐑤𐑨𐑐 𐑝 𐑩 𐑕𐑱𐑤, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑛𐑦 𐑣𐑳𐑥 𐑝 𐑞 𐑳𐑯𐑕𐑰𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑛𐑝𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑰𐑤.</p>
    <p>𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑴𐑟, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 ·𐑸𐑒𐑦, 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑒𐑹𐑛𐑩𐑯, 𐑣𐑵𐑟 𐑐𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑽 𐑞 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼-𐑣𐑨𐑗𐑩𐑟, 𐑢𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑼𐑛 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑱𐑚𐑼, 𐑩 ·𐑗𐑴𐑤𐑴, 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑛𐑟 𐑩𐑚𐑳𐑝.</p>
    <p>“𐑣𐑦𐑕𐑑! 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑿 𐑣𐑽 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑯𐑶𐑟, ·𐑒𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑒𐑴?”</p>
    <p>“𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑞 𐑚𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑, 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑘𐑰, ·𐑸𐑒𐑦? 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑯𐑶𐑟 𐑛'𐑘𐑰 𐑥𐑰𐑯?”</p>
    <p>“𐑞𐑺 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯—𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑞 𐑣𐑨𐑗𐑩𐑟—𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑿 𐑣𐑽 𐑦𐑑—𐑩 𐑒𐑪𐑓—𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑒𐑪𐑓.”</p>
    <p>“𐑒𐑪𐑓 𐑚𐑰 𐑛𐑨𐑥𐑛! 𐑐𐑭𐑕 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑻𐑯 𐑚𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑.”</p>
    <p>“𐑞𐑺 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯—𐑞𐑺 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟!—𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑑𐑵 𐑹 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐𐑼𐑟 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑴𐑝𐑼, 𐑯𐑬!”</p>
    <p>“𐑒𐑸𐑭𐑥𐑚𐑩! 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑛𐑳𐑯, 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑥𐑱𐑑, 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑘𐑰? 𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑞 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑕𐑴𐑒𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑘𐑰 𐑰𐑑 𐑓 𐑕𐑳𐑐𐑼 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑝 𐑘𐑰—𐑯𐑳𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑧𐑤𐑕. 𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑!”</p>
    <p>“𐑕𐑱 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑘𐑰 𐑢𐑦𐑤, 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑥𐑱𐑑; 𐑲'𐑝 𐑖𐑸𐑐 𐑽𐑟.”</p>
    <p>“𐑲, 𐑿 𐑸 𐑞 𐑗𐑨𐑐, 𐑱𐑯𐑑 𐑘𐑰, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑻𐑛 𐑞 𐑣𐑳𐑥 𐑝 𐑞 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑒𐑢𐑱𐑒𐑼𐑧𐑕'𐑩𐑟 𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑙-𐑯𐑰𐑛𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑓𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑦 𐑥𐑲𐑤𐑟 𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑰 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑; 𐑿'𐑼 𐑞 𐑗𐑨𐑐.”</p>
    <p>“𐑜𐑮𐑦𐑯 𐑩𐑢𐑱; 𐑢𐑰'𐑤 𐑕𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑟 𐑳𐑐. 𐑣𐑸𐑒 𐑘𐑰, ·𐑒𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑒𐑴, 𐑞𐑺 𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼-𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑕𐑰𐑯 𐑪𐑯 𐑛𐑧𐑒; 𐑯 𐑲 𐑕𐑩𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑑 𐑬𐑼 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑥𐑴𐑜𐑩𐑤 𐑯𐑴𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑦𐑑 𐑑𐑵. 𐑲 𐑣𐑻𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚 𐑑𐑧𐑤 ·𐑓𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑒, 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑥𐑹𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑪𐑗, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛.”</p>
    <p>“·𐑑𐑦𐑖! 𐑞 𐑚𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑!”</p>
  </body>
</html>
