<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Chapter 89</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="chapter-89" xml:lang="en-US">
      <h2 id="chapterheader-89">·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 89. 𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑑-·𐑓𐑦𐑖 𐑯 ·𐑤𐑵𐑕-·𐑓𐑦𐑖.</h2>
    </div>
    <p>𐑞 𐑩𐑤𐑵𐑠𐑩𐑯 𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑓 𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑓-𐑐𐑴𐑤𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯, 𐑯𐑦𐑕𐑧𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑱𐑑𐑕 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑩𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑤𐑷𐑟 𐑯 𐑮𐑧𐑜𐑿𐑤𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑦, 𐑝 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑓 𐑥𐑱 𐑚𐑰 𐑛𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑯 𐑚𐑨𐑡.</p>
    <p>𐑦𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑕𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑕 𐑸 𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑦, 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑥𐑱 𐑚𐑰 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑒 𐑚𐑲 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑤, 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑱𐑐, 𐑯 𐑚𐑰 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑛 𐑯 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑗𐑼𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑩𐑯𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑝𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑤; 𐑯 𐑣𐑽𐑦𐑯 𐑸 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑟𐑛 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑼 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑡𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑟, 𐑷𐑤 𐑐𐑸𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑜𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑓𐑰𐑗𐑼. 𐑓 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑭𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑤,—𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑩 𐑢𐑽𐑦 𐑯 𐑐𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑗𐑱𐑕 𐑯 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑗𐑼 𐑝 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑞 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦 𐑥𐑱 𐑜𐑧𐑑 𐑤𐑵𐑕 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑚𐑲 𐑮𐑰𐑟𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑩 𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑥; 𐑯 𐑛𐑮𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑸 𐑩𐑢𐑱 𐑑 𐑤𐑰𐑢𐑼𐑛, 𐑚𐑰 𐑮𐑰𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑚𐑲 𐑩 𐑕𐑧𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑼, 𐑣𐑵, 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑒𐑭𐑥, 𐑕𐑯𐑳𐑜𐑤𐑦 𐑑𐑴𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙𐑕𐑲𐑛, 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑒 𐑝 𐑤𐑲𐑓 𐑹 𐑤𐑲𐑯. 𐑞𐑳𐑕 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑝𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑕 𐑯 𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑿𐑑𐑕 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑪𐑓𐑩𐑯 𐑼𐑲𐑟 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑢𐑰𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑢𐑻 𐑞𐑺 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑹 𐑳𐑯𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑯, 𐑿𐑯𐑦𐑝𐑻𐑕𐑩𐑤, 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑿𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑤𐑷 𐑩𐑐𐑤𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑒𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑟.</p>
    <p>𐑐𐑼𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑕 𐑞 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑴𐑛 𐑷𐑔𐑼𐑲𐑟𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑤𐑧𐑡𐑦𐑕𐑤𐑩𐑑𐑦𐑝 𐑦𐑯𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑝 ·𐑣𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛. 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑑𐑕-·𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯 ⸰𐑱𐑛 1695. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑴 𐑯𐑴 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑯𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑷, 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑩𐑥𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑴𐑯 𐑤𐑧𐑡𐑦𐑕𐑤𐑱𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑯 𐑤𐑷𐑘𐑼𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑼. 𐑞𐑱 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑩 𐑕𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑥 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑓 𐑑𐑻𐑕 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑣𐑧𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑝𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑕𐑼𐑐𐑭𐑕𐑩𐑟 ·𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑾𐑯'𐑟 ·𐑐𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑕 𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑲-𐑤𐑷𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑗𐑲𐑯𐑰𐑟 ·𐑕𐑩𐑕𐑲𐑩𐑑𐑦 𐑓 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 ·𐑥𐑧𐑛𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼 ·𐑐𐑰𐑐𐑩𐑤'𐑟 ·𐑚𐑦𐑟𐑯𐑩𐑕. 𐑘𐑧𐑕; 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑤𐑷𐑟 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑦𐑯𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑪𐑯 𐑩 ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑯 ·𐑨𐑯'𐑟 𐑓𐑸𐑞𐑦𐑙, 𐑹 𐑞 𐑚𐑸𐑚 𐑝 𐑩 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯, 𐑯 𐑢𐑹𐑯 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑯𐑧𐑒, 𐑕𐑴 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤 𐑸 𐑞𐑱.</p>
    <p>𐑲. 𐑩 ·𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑑-·𐑓𐑦𐑖 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑪𐑙𐑟 𐑑 𐑞 𐑐𐑸𐑑𐑦 𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑑 𐑦𐑑.</p>
    <p>II. 𐑩 ·𐑤𐑵𐑕-·𐑓𐑦𐑖 𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑺 𐑜𐑱𐑥 𐑓 𐑧𐑯𐑦𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦 𐑣𐑵 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑕𐑵𐑯𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑒𐑨𐑗 𐑦𐑑.</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑟 𐑞 𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑗𐑦𐑓 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑴𐑛 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑨𐑛𐑥𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑚𐑮𐑰𐑝𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑦𐑑, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑯𐑦𐑕𐑧𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑱𐑑𐑕 𐑩 𐑝𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑝𐑪𐑤𐑿𐑥 𐑝 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑺𐑦𐑟 𐑑 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑑.</p>
    <p>𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑: 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑩 ·𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑑-·𐑓𐑦𐑖? 𐑩𐑤𐑲𐑝 𐑹 𐑛𐑧𐑛 𐑩 𐑓𐑦𐑖 𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑧𐑒𐑯𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑑, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩𐑯 𐑪𐑒𐑿𐑐𐑲𐑛 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑹 𐑚𐑴𐑑, 𐑚𐑲 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑥𐑰𐑛𐑾𐑥 𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑴𐑤𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑪𐑒𐑿𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑹 𐑪𐑒𐑿𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕,—𐑩 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑, 𐑩𐑯 𐑹, 𐑩 𐑯𐑲𐑯-𐑦𐑯𐑗 𐑒𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤, 𐑩 𐑑𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑜𐑮𐑨𐑓 𐑢𐑲𐑼, 𐑹 𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑝 𐑒𐑪𐑚𐑢𐑧𐑚, 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑥. 𐑤𐑲𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑟 𐑩 𐑓𐑦𐑖 𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑧𐑒𐑯𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑦𐑑 𐑚𐑺𐑟 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑓, 𐑹 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑩𐑜𐑯𐑲𐑟𐑛 𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑐𐑩𐑟𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑯; 𐑕𐑴 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑐𐑸𐑑𐑦 𐑢𐑱𐑓𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑑 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑯𐑕 𐑞𐑺 𐑩𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑨𐑑 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑑 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑦𐑑 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙𐑕𐑲𐑛, 𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑺 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑕𐑴 𐑑 𐑛𐑵.</p>
    <p>𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑸 𐑕𐑲𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑺𐑦𐑟; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑺𐑦𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑝𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑸𐑛 𐑢𐑻𐑛𐑟 𐑯 𐑣𐑸𐑛𐑼 𐑯𐑪𐑒𐑕—𐑞 ·𐑒𐑴𐑒-𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯-·𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑓𐑦𐑕𐑑. 𐑑𐑮𐑵, 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑞 𐑥𐑹 𐑳𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑑 𐑯 𐑪𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑩𐑤𐑬𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑸 𐑷𐑤𐑢𐑱𐑟 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑓 𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑽 𐑒𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑟, 𐑢𐑺 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑚𐑰 𐑩𐑯 𐑬𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑡𐑩𐑕 𐑥𐑪𐑮𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑕 𐑓 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑐𐑸𐑑𐑦 𐑑 𐑒𐑤𐑱𐑥 𐑐𐑩𐑟𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑐𐑮𐑰𐑝𐑾𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑗𐑱𐑕𐑑 𐑹 𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑩𐑯𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑐𐑸𐑑𐑦. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑳𐑞𐑼𐑟 𐑸 𐑚𐑲 𐑯𐑴 𐑥𐑰𐑯𐑟 𐑕𐑴 𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑐𐑿𐑤𐑩𐑕.</p>
    <p>𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑓𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑦 𐑘𐑽𐑟 𐑩𐑜𐑴 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑾𐑕 𐑒𐑱𐑕 𐑝 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑑𐑮𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑜𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛, 𐑢𐑺𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑓𐑕 𐑕𐑧𐑑 𐑓𐑹𐑔 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑩 𐑣𐑸𐑛 𐑗𐑱𐑕 𐑝 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑯𐑹𐑞𐑼𐑯 𐑕𐑰𐑟; 𐑯 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑰𐑛 𐑞𐑱 (𐑞 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑓𐑕) 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑕𐑩𐑒𐑕𐑰𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑓𐑦𐑖; 𐑞𐑱 𐑢𐑻 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑, 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑐𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑤 𐑝 𐑞𐑺 𐑤𐑲𐑝𐑟, 𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑲𐑡𐑛 𐑑 𐑓𐑼𐑕𐑱𐑒 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑞𐑺 𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑟, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑦𐑑𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓. 𐑳𐑤𐑑𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑞 𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕 (𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑵 𐑝 𐑩𐑯𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑖𐑦𐑐) 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑳𐑐 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑒, 𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑛, 𐑕𐑰𐑟𐑛, 𐑯 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑞 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑲𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑓𐑕. 𐑯 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑢𐑻 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞, 𐑞𐑺 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑯𐑨𐑐𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑼𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑓𐑕' 𐑑𐑰𐑔, 𐑯 𐑩𐑖𐑫𐑼𐑛 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑢𐑱 𐑝 𐑛𐑪𐑒𐑕𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑡𐑦 𐑑 𐑞 𐑛𐑰𐑛 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑛𐑳𐑯, 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑯𐑬 𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑱𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑤𐑲𐑯, 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑟, 𐑯 𐑚𐑴𐑑, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑩𐑑𐑨𐑗𐑑 𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑰𐑠𐑼. 𐑢𐑺𐑓𐑹 𐑞 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑓𐑕 𐑯𐑬 𐑕𐑵𐑛 𐑓 𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑳𐑝𐑼𐑦 𐑝 𐑞 𐑝𐑨𐑤𐑿 𐑝 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑤𐑲𐑯, 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑟, 𐑯 𐑚𐑴𐑑.</p>
    <p>·𐑥𐑼 ·𐑻𐑕𐑒𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑤 𐑓 𐑞 𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕; ·𐑤𐑹𐑛 ·𐑧𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑚𐑼𐑩 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑡𐑳𐑡. 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑹𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑧𐑯𐑕, 𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑑𐑦 ·𐑻𐑕𐑒𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑑 𐑦𐑤𐑳𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑩𐑟𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑚𐑲 𐑩𐑤𐑵𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑩 𐑮𐑰𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑥. 𐑒𐑪𐑯. 𐑒𐑱𐑕, 𐑢𐑺𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑥𐑩𐑯, 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑝𐑱𐑯 𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑚𐑮𐑲𐑛𐑩𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑲𐑓'𐑕 𐑝𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑕𐑯𐑩𐑕, 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑩𐑚𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑻 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑰𐑟 𐑝 𐑤𐑲𐑓; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑹𐑕 𐑝 𐑘𐑽𐑟, 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑐, 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑩𐑯 𐑨𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑳𐑝𐑼 𐑐𐑩𐑟𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑣𐑻. ·𐑻𐑕𐑒𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑕𐑲𐑛; 𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑹𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑕𐑱𐑦𐑙, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑴 𐑞 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑼𐑦𐑡𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑤𐑱𐑛𐑦, 𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑣𐑻 𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑑, 𐑯 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑲 𐑮𐑰𐑟𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑕 𐑝 𐑣𐑻 𐑐𐑤𐑳𐑯𐑡𐑦𐑙 𐑝𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑕𐑯𐑩𐑕, 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑩𐑚𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑻; 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑩𐑚𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑻 𐑣𐑰 𐑛𐑦𐑛, 𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑖𐑰 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑩 𐑤𐑵𐑕-𐑓𐑦𐑖; 𐑯 𐑞𐑺𐑓𐑹 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑩 𐑕𐑳𐑚𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑢𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑮𐑰-𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑻, 𐑞 𐑤𐑱𐑛𐑦 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑚𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑢𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑥𐑩𐑯'𐑟 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑐𐑼𐑑𐑦, 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑢𐑪𐑑𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑻.</p>
    <p>𐑯𐑬 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑒𐑱𐑕 ·𐑻𐑕𐑒𐑦𐑯 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑭𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑯 𐑞 𐑤𐑱𐑛𐑦 𐑢𐑻 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑦𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑒𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑑𐑦𐑝 𐑝 𐑰𐑗 𐑳𐑞𐑼.</p>
    <p>𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑐𐑤𐑰𐑛𐑦𐑙𐑟, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑼 𐑐𐑤𐑰𐑛𐑦𐑙𐑟, 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑛𐑵𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑻𐑛, 𐑞 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑤𐑻𐑯𐑛 𐑡𐑳𐑡 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑧𐑑 𐑑𐑻𐑥𐑟 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑲𐑛𐑩𐑛, 𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑑,—𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑓 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑, 𐑣𐑰 𐑩𐑢𐑹𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑑 𐑞 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑓𐑕, 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑪𐑟 𐑞𐑱 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑥𐑽𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑚𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑑 𐑕𐑱𐑝 𐑞𐑺 𐑤𐑲𐑝𐑟; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑸𐑛 𐑑 𐑞 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑝𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑟, 𐑯 𐑤𐑲𐑯, 𐑞𐑱 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑪𐑙𐑛 𐑑 𐑞 𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕; 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑪𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 ·𐑤𐑵𐑕-·𐑓𐑦𐑖 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑝 𐑞 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑗𐑼; 𐑯 𐑞 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑟 𐑯 𐑤𐑲𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑪𐑟 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑦𐑖 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑪𐑓 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑧𐑥, 𐑦𐑑 (𐑞 𐑓𐑦𐑖) 𐑩𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑼𐑛 𐑩 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑐𐑼𐑑𐑦 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑸𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑟; 𐑯 𐑣𐑧𐑯𐑕 𐑧𐑯𐑦𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦 𐑣𐑵 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼𐑢𐑼𐑛𐑟 𐑑𐑫𐑒 𐑞 𐑓𐑦𐑖 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑩 𐑮𐑲𐑑 𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑥. 𐑯𐑬 𐑞 𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼𐑢𐑼𐑛𐑟 𐑑𐑫𐑒 𐑞 𐑓𐑦𐑖; 𐑻𐑜𐑴, 𐑞 𐑩𐑓𐑹𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑸𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑞𐑺𐑟.</p>
    <p>𐑩 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑦𐑠𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑤𐑻𐑯𐑛 ·𐑡𐑳𐑡, 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑐𐑪𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑚𐑡𐑧𐑒𐑑 𐑑 𐑦𐑑. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑐𐑤𐑬𐑛 𐑳𐑐 𐑑 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑥𐑼𐑦 𐑮𐑪𐑒 𐑝 𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑼, 𐑞 𐑑𐑵 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑤𐑱𐑛 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑑𐑢𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑷𐑟 𐑐𐑮𐑰𐑝𐑾𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑢𐑴𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑯 𐑩𐑐𐑤𐑲𐑛 𐑯 𐑦𐑤𐑵𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 ·𐑤𐑹𐑛 ·𐑧𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑚𐑼𐑩 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑩𐑚𐑳𐑝 𐑕𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑒𐑱𐑕; 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑑𐑵 𐑤𐑷𐑟 𐑑𐑳𐑗𐑦𐑙 ·𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑑-·𐑓𐑦𐑖 𐑯 ·𐑤𐑵𐑕-·𐑓𐑦𐑖, 𐑲 𐑕𐑱, 𐑢𐑦𐑤, 𐑪𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑓𐑤𐑧𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑚𐑰 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑓𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑿𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑡𐑫𐑼𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑵𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑕; 𐑓 𐑯𐑪𐑑𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑦𐑒𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑕𐑼𐑦 𐑝 𐑕𐑒𐑳𐑤𐑐𐑗𐑼, 𐑞 ·𐑑𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑤𐑷, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞 ·𐑑𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑓𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑲𐑯𐑟, 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑑𐑵 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑐𐑕 𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑪𐑯.</p>
    <p>𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑩 𐑕𐑱𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑢𐑳𐑯'𐑟 𐑥𐑬𐑔, ·𐑐𐑩𐑟𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑭𐑓 𐑝 𐑞 𐑤𐑷: 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑟, 𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑸𐑛𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑣𐑬 𐑞 𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑐𐑩𐑟𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑯? 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑪𐑓𐑩𐑯 𐑐𐑩𐑟𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑝 𐑞 𐑤𐑷. 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑸 𐑞 𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑿𐑟 𐑯 𐑕𐑴𐑤𐑟 𐑝 ·𐑮𐑳𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑕𐑻𐑓𐑕 𐑯 ·𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑳𐑚𐑤𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑕𐑤𐑱𐑝𐑟 𐑚𐑳𐑑 ·𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑑-·𐑓𐑦𐑖, 𐑢𐑺𐑪𐑝 𐑐𐑩𐑟𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑝 𐑞 𐑤𐑷? 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑑 𐑞 𐑮𐑩𐑐𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑕 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑹𐑛 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑛𐑴'𐑟 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 ·𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑑-·𐑓𐑦𐑖? 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑘𐑪𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑑𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑝𐑦𐑤𐑩𐑯'𐑟 𐑥𐑸𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑛𐑹-𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑑 𐑓 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑓; 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 ·𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑑-·𐑓𐑦𐑖? 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑮𐑵𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑗 ·𐑥𐑹𐑛𐑩𐑒𐑲, 𐑞 𐑚𐑮𐑴𐑒𐑼, 𐑜𐑧𐑑𐑕 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑐𐑫𐑼 ·𐑢𐑴𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑪𐑯, 𐑞 𐑚𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑮𐑳𐑐𐑑, 𐑪𐑯 𐑩 𐑤𐑴𐑯 𐑑 𐑒𐑰𐑐 ·𐑢𐑴𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑪𐑯'𐑟 𐑓𐑨𐑥𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑝𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯; 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑮𐑵𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 ·𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑑-·𐑓𐑦𐑖? 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 ·𐑸𐑗𐑚𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑐 𐑝 ·𐑕𐑱𐑝𐑕𐑴𐑤'𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑝 £100,000 𐑕𐑰𐑟𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑕𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑑 𐑚𐑮𐑧𐑛 𐑯 𐑗𐑰𐑟 𐑝 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑛𐑟 𐑝 𐑔𐑬𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑝 𐑚𐑮𐑴𐑒𐑩𐑯-𐑚𐑨𐑒𐑑 𐑤𐑱𐑚𐑼𐑼𐑟 (𐑷𐑤 𐑖𐑫𐑼 𐑝 𐑣𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑝 ·𐑕𐑱𐑝𐑕𐑴𐑤'𐑟 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑐) 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑜𐑤𐑪𐑚𐑿𐑤𐑼 £100,000 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 ·𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑑-·𐑓𐑦𐑖? 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑸 𐑞 ·𐑛𐑿𐑒 𐑝 ·𐑛𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼'𐑟 𐑣𐑼𐑧𐑛𐑦𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑑𐑬𐑯𐑟 𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑥𐑤𐑩𐑑𐑕 𐑚𐑳𐑑 ·𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑑-·𐑓𐑦𐑖? 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑛𐑬𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽, ·𐑡𐑪𐑯 ·𐑚𐑫𐑤, 𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑫𐑼 ·𐑲𐑼𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 ·𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑑-·𐑓𐑦𐑖? 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑨𐑐𐑩𐑕𐑑𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑒 𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑼, ·𐑚𐑮𐑳𐑞𐑼 ·𐑡𐑪𐑯𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯, 𐑦𐑟 ·𐑑𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑩𐑕 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 ·𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑑-·𐑓𐑦𐑖? 𐑯 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑰𐑟, 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 ·𐑐𐑩𐑟𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑝 𐑞 𐑤𐑷?</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑓 𐑞 𐑛𐑪𐑒𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑯 𐑝 ·𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑑-·𐑓𐑦𐑖 𐑚𐑰 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑐𐑤𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤, 𐑞 𐑒𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑛 𐑛𐑪𐑒𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑯 𐑝 ·𐑤𐑵𐑕-·𐑓𐑦𐑖 𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑥𐑹 𐑢𐑲𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑴. 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑯𐑨𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑯 𐑿𐑯𐑦𐑝𐑻𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑐𐑤𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤.</p>
    <p>𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 ·𐑩𐑥𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩 𐑦𐑯 1492 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 ·𐑤𐑵𐑕-·𐑓𐑦𐑖, 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑗 ·𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑕 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑒 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑐𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑖 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑢𐑱 𐑝 𐑢𐑱𐑓𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑑 𐑓 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑮𐑶𐑩𐑤 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑼 𐑯 𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑕? 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 ·𐑐𐑴𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑑𐑕𐑸? 𐑢𐑪𐑑 ·𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑕 𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑑𐑻𐑒? 𐑢𐑪𐑑 ·𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑾 𐑑 ·𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛? 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑤 ·𐑥𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑴 𐑚𐑰 𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑿𐑯𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑑𐑕? 𐑷𐑤 ·𐑤𐑵𐑕-·𐑓𐑦𐑖.</p>
    <p>𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑸 𐑞 ·𐑮𐑲𐑑𐑕 𐑝 ·𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑤𐑦𐑚𐑼𐑑𐑦𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑳𐑑 ·𐑤𐑵𐑕-·𐑓𐑦𐑖? 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑥𐑧𐑯'𐑟 𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑯 𐑩𐑐𐑦𐑯𐑘𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑚𐑳𐑑 ·𐑤𐑵𐑕-·𐑓𐑦𐑖? 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑕 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑰𐑓 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 ·𐑤𐑵𐑕-·𐑓𐑦𐑖? 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑑 𐑞 𐑪𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑕 𐑕𐑥𐑳𐑜𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑝𐑻𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑕 𐑸 𐑞 𐑔𐑷𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑼𐑟 𐑚𐑳𐑑 ·𐑤𐑵𐑕-·𐑓𐑦𐑖? 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑜𐑤𐑴𐑚 𐑦𐑑𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 ·𐑤𐑵𐑕-·𐑓𐑦𐑖? 𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑸 𐑿, 𐑮𐑰𐑛𐑼, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 ·𐑤𐑵𐑕-·𐑓𐑦𐑖 𐑯 𐑩 ·𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑑-·𐑓𐑦𐑖, 𐑑𐑵?</p>
  </body>
</html>
