<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Chapter 21</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="chapter-21" xml:lang="en-US">
      <h2 id="chapterheader-21">·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 21. 𐑜𐑴𐑦𐑙 ·𐑩𐑚𐑹𐑛.</h2>
    </div>
    <p>𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑽𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑕 𐑴'𐑒𐑤𐑪𐑒, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑜𐑮𐑱 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑻𐑓𐑦𐑒𐑑 𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑦 𐑛𐑷𐑯, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑢𐑰 𐑛𐑮𐑵 𐑯𐑲 𐑞 𐑢𐑹𐑓.</p>
    <p>“𐑞𐑺 𐑸 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼𐑟 𐑮𐑳𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑞𐑺, 𐑦𐑓 𐑲 𐑕𐑰 𐑮𐑲𐑑,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑲 𐑑 ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜, “𐑦𐑑 𐑒𐑭𐑯𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑖𐑨𐑛𐑴𐑟; 𐑖𐑰'𐑟 𐑪𐑓 𐑚𐑲 𐑕𐑳𐑯𐑮𐑲𐑟, 𐑲 𐑜𐑧𐑕; 𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑪𐑯!”</p>
    <p>“𐑩𐑝𐑭𐑕𐑑!” 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 𐑩 𐑝𐑶𐑕, 𐑣𐑵𐑟 𐑴𐑯𐑼 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑤𐑴𐑕 𐑚𐑦𐑣𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑳𐑕, 𐑤𐑱𐑛 𐑩 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑚𐑴𐑔 𐑬𐑼 𐑖𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑼𐑟, 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑿𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑢𐑰𐑯 𐑳𐑕, 𐑕𐑑𐑫𐑛 𐑕𐑑𐑵𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑹𐑢𐑼𐑛 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤, 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑳𐑯𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑑𐑢𐑲𐑤𐑲𐑑, 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑽𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜 𐑑 𐑥𐑰. 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 ·𐑦𐑤𐑲𐑡𐑩.</p>
    <p>“𐑜𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑚𐑹𐑛?”</p>
    <p>“𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑪𐑓, 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑿,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑲.</p>
    <p>“𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑰 𐑣𐑽,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜, 𐑖𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓, “𐑜𐑴 '𐑢𐑱!”</p>
    <p>“𐑱𐑯𐑑 𐑜𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑚𐑹𐑛, 𐑞𐑧𐑯?”</p>
    <p>“𐑘𐑧𐑕, 𐑢𐑰 𐑸,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑲, “𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑟𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑦𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑝 𐑘𐑹𐑟? 𐑛𐑵 𐑿 𐑯𐑴, ·𐑥𐑼 ·𐑦𐑤𐑲𐑡𐑩, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑲 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑼 𐑿 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑻𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑯𐑑?”</p>
    <p>“𐑯𐑴, 𐑯𐑴, 𐑯𐑴; 𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑩𐑢𐑺 𐑝 𐑞𐑨𐑑,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 ·𐑦𐑤𐑲𐑡𐑩, 𐑕𐑤𐑴𐑤𐑦 𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑥𐑰 𐑑 ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑳𐑯𐑩𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑜𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟.</p>
    <p>“·𐑦𐑤𐑲𐑡𐑩,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑲, “𐑿 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑲𐑡 𐑥𐑲 𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑯 𐑥𐑰 𐑚𐑲 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑛𐑮𐑷𐑦𐑙. 𐑢𐑰 𐑸 𐑜𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑾𐑯 𐑯 ·𐑐𐑩𐑕𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒 ·𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟, 𐑯 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑓𐑻 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑛𐑦𐑑𐑱𐑯𐑛.”</p>
    <p>“𐑘𐑰 𐑚𐑰, 𐑚𐑰 𐑘𐑰? 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑨𐑒 𐑩𐑓𐑹 𐑚𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑓𐑩𐑕𐑑?”</p>
    <p>“𐑣𐑰'𐑟 𐑒𐑮𐑨𐑒𐑑, ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑲, “𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑪𐑯.”</p>
    <p>“𐑣𐑪𐑤𐑴!” 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑼𐑦 ·𐑦𐑤𐑲𐑡𐑩, 𐑣𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑕 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑢𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑵𐑝𐑛 𐑩 𐑓𐑿 𐑐𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑟.</p>
    <p>“𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑲, “·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜, 𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑪𐑯.”</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑤 𐑳𐑐 𐑑 𐑳𐑕 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯, 𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑤𐑨𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑪𐑯 𐑥𐑲 𐑖𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑼, 𐑕𐑧𐑛—“𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑘𐑰 𐑕𐑰 𐑧𐑯𐑦𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑜𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑑𐑩𐑢𐑹𐑛𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑩 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑩𐑜𐑴?”</p>
    <p>𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑒 𐑚𐑲 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯 𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑼-𐑝-𐑓𐑨𐑒𐑑 𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑕𐑗𐑩𐑯, 𐑲 𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑼𐑛, 𐑕𐑱𐑦𐑙, “𐑘𐑧𐑕, 𐑲 𐑔𐑷𐑑 𐑲 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑕𐑰 𐑓𐑹 𐑹 𐑓𐑲𐑝 𐑥𐑧𐑯; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑑𐑵 𐑛𐑦𐑥 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑖𐑫𐑼.”</p>
    <p>“𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑥, 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑥,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 ·𐑦𐑤𐑲𐑡𐑩. “𐑥𐑹𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑘𐑰.”</p>
    <p>𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕 𐑥𐑹 𐑢𐑰 𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕 𐑥𐑹 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑕𐑪𐑓𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑳𐑕; 𐑯 𐑑𐑳𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑲 𐑖𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑼 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯, 𐑕𐑧𐑛, “𐑕𐑰 𐑦𐑓 𐑿 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑛 '𐑩𐑥 𐑯𐑬, 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑘𐑰?</p>
    <p>“𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑵?”</p>
    <p>“𐑥𐑹𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑘𐑰! 𐑥𐑹𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑘𐑰!” 𐑣𐑰 𐑮𐑰𐑡𐑶𐑯𐑛, 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯 𐑥𐑵𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑓. “𐑴! 𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑜𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑢𐑹𐑯 𐑘𐑰 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑—𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛, 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛—𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑷𐑤 𐑢𐑳𐑯, 𐑷𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑨𐑥𐑤𐑦 𐑑𐑵;—𐑖𐑸𐑐 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑥𐑹𐑯𐑦𐑙, 𐑱𐑯𐑑 𐑦𐑑? 𐑜𐑫𐑛-𐑚𐑲 𐑑 𐑘𐑰. 𐑖𐑭𐑯𐑑 𐑕𐑰 𐑘𐑰 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑕𐑵𐑯, 𐑲 𐑜𐑧𐑕; 𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑧𐑕 𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑞 ·𐑜𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑛 ·𐑡𐑫𐑼𐑦.” 𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑒𐑮𐑨𐑒𐑑 𐑢𐑻𐑛𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑐𐑸𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑤𐑰𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑰, 𐑓 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑, 𐑦𐑯 𐑯𐑴 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑿𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑕.</p>
    <p>𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑, 𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑯 𐑚𐑹𐑛 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛, 𐑢𐑰 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑩𐑑, 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑩 𐑕𐑴𐑤 𐑥𐑵𐑝𐑦𐑙. 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑚𐑦𐑯 𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑤𐑪𐑒𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑦𐑯; 𐑞 𐑣𐑨𐑗𐑩𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑷𐑤 𐑪𐑯, 𐑯 𐑤𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑼𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑒𐑶𐑤𐑟 𐑝 𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑦𐑙. 𐑜𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑹𐑢𐑼𐑛 𐑑 𐑞 𐑓𐑴𐑒𐑕𐑩𐑤, 𐑢𐑰 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑕𐑤𐑲𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑒𐑳𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑴𐑐𐑩𐑯. 𐑕𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑤𐑲𐑑, 𐑢𐑰 𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑛𐑬𐑯, 𐑯 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑯 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑼 𐑞𐑺, 𐑮𐑨𐑐𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑑𐑨𐑑𐑼𐑛 𐑐𐑰-𐑡𐑨𐑒𐑩𐑑. 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑔𐑮𐑴𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑤𐑧𐑙𐑔 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑑𐑵 𐑗𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑕, 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑱𐑕 𐑛𐑬𐑯𐑢𐑼𐑛𐑟 𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑴𐑟𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑸𐑥𐑟. 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑤𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑼 𐑕𐑤𐑧𐑐𐑑 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥.</p>
    <p>“𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼𐑟 𐑢𐑰 𐑕𐑷, ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜, 𐑢𐑺 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑞𐑱 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑜𐑪𐑯 𐑑?” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑲, 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑛𐑿𐑚𐑾𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐𐑼. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑹𐑓, ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑯𐑴𐑑𐑦𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑲 𐑯𐑬 𐑩𐑤𐑵𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑑; 𐑣𐑧𐑯𐑕 𐑲 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑔𐑷𐑑 𐑥𐑲𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑪𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑰𐑝𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑼, 𐑢𐑻 𐑦𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑓 ·𐑦𐑤𐑲𐑡𐑩'𐑟 𐑳𐑞𐑼𐑢𐑲𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑤𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑕𐑗𐑩𐑯. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑲 𐑚𐑰𐑑 𐑞 𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑛𐑬𐑯; 𐑯 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯 𐑥𐑸𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐𐑼, 𐑡𐑪𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑼𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑑 ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑐𐑼𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑕 𐑢𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑦𐑑 𐑳𐑐 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦; 𐑑𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑑 𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑚𐑤𐑦𐑖 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑩𐑒𐑹𐑛𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦. 𐑣𐑰 𐑐𐑫𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐𐑼'𐑟 𐑮𐑽, 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑴 𐑓𐑰𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑓 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑪𐑓𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑳𐑓; 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑 𐑥𐑹 𐑩𐑛𐑵, 𐑕𐑨𐑑 𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑩𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑞𐑺.</p>
    <p>“𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑕! ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜, 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑕𐑦𐑑 𐑞𐑺,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑲.</p>
    <p>“𐑴! ·𐑐𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑛𐑵𐑛 𐑕𐑰𐑑,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜, “𐑥𐑲 𐑒𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑦 𐑢𐑱; 𐑢𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑣𐑻𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑓𐑱𐑕.”</p>
    <p>“𐑓𐑱𐑕!” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑲, “𐑒𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑱𐑕? 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑚𐑦𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑞𐑧𐑯; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑣𐑬 𐑣𐑸𐑛 𐑣𐑰 𐑚𐑮𐑰𐑞𐑟, 𐑣𐑰'𐑟 𐑣𐑰𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓; 𐑜𐑧𐑑 𐑪𐑓, ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜, 𐑿 𐑸 𐑣𐑧𐑝𐑦, 𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑜𐑮𐑲𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑓𐑱𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑐𐑫𐑼. 𐑜𐑧𐑑 𐑪𐑓, ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜! 𐑤𐑫𐑒, 𐑣𐑰'𐑤 𐑑𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑿 𐑪𐑓 𐑕𐑵𐑯. 𐑲 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑣𐑰 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑒.”</p>
    <p>·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑵𐑝𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑑 𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑘𐑪𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐𐑼, 𐑯 𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑣𐑷𐑒 𐑐𐑲𐑐. 𐑲 𐑕𐑨𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑓𐑰𐑑. 𐑢𐑰 𐑒𐑧𐑐𐑑 𐑞 𐑐𐑲𐑐 𐑐𐑭𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐𐑼, 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑑 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼. 𐑥𐑰𐑯𐑢𐑲𐑤, 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑕𐑗𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑮𐑴𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑓𐑨𐑖𐑩𐑯, ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜 𐑜𐑱𐑝 𐑥𐑰 𐑑 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑, 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛, 𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑞 𐑨𐑚𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑝 𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑰𐑟 𐑯 𐑕𐑴𐑓𐑩𐑟 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑕𐑹𐑑𐑕, 𐑞 𐑒𐑦𐑙, 𐑗𐑰𐑓𐑕, 𐑯 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑐𐑰𐑐𐑩𐑤 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑤𐑦, 𐑢𐑻 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑳𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑥 𐑝 𐑓𐑨𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑝 𐑞 𐑤𐑴𐑼 𐑹𐑛𐑼𐑟 𐑓 𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑟; 𐑯 𐑑 𐑓𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑖 𐑩 𐑣𐑬𐑕 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑓𐑼𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑑, 𐑿 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑳𐑐 𐑱𐑑 𐑹 𐑑𐑧𐑯 𐑤𐑱𐑟𐑦 𐑓𐑧𐑤𐑴𐑟, 𐑯 𐑤𐑱 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑽𐑟 𐑯 𐑨𐑤𐑒𐑴𐑝𐑟. 𐑚𐑦𐑕𐑲𐑛𐑟, 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑝𐑰𐑯𐑾𐑯𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑒𐑻𐑖𐑩𐑯; 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑚𐑧𐑑𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑜𐑸𐑛𐑩𐑯-𐑗𐑺𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑸 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑝𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑢𐑷𐑒𐑦𐑙-𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑕; 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑩𐑒𐑱𐑠𐑩𐑯, 𐑩 𐑗𐑰𐑓 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑩𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑, 𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑟𐑲𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑑 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑩 𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑰 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑩 𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑑𐑮𐑰, 𐑐𐑼𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑛𐑨𐑥𐑐 𐑥𐑸𐑖𐑦 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕.</p>
    <p>𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑯𐑼𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑟, 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑑𐑲𐑥 ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑰𐑝𐑛 𐑞 𐑑𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑣𐑷𐑒 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑥𐑰, 𐑣𐑰 𐑓𐑤𐑳𐑮𐑦𐑖𐑑 𐑞 𐑣𐑨𐑗𐑩𐑑-𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑝 𐑦𐑑 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐𐑼'𐑟 𐑣𐑧𐑛.</p>
    <p>“𐑢𐑪𐑑'𐑕 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑓, ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑜?”</p>
    <p>“·𐑐𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑰𐑟𐑦, 𐑒𐑦𐑤-𐑰; 𐑴! ·𐑐𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑰𐑟𐑦!”</p>
    <p>𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑜𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑢𐑲𐑤𐑛 𐑮𐑧𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑣𐑷𐑒-𐑐𐑲𐑐, 𐑢𐑦𐑗, 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛, 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑑𐑵 𐑿𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑚𐑴𐑔 𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑴𐑟 𐑯 𐑕𐑵𐑞𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑴𐑤, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑢𐑰 𐑢𐑻 𐑛𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑼. 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑪𐑙 𐑝𐑱𐑐𐑼 𐑯𐑬 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑰𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑴𐑤, 𐑦𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑨𐑯 𐑑 𐑑𐑧𐑤 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥. 𐑣𐑰 𐑚𐑮𐑰𐑞𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑥𐑳𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑩𐑛𐑯𐑩𐑕; 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑯𐑴𐑟; 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑪𐑤𐑝𐑛 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕 𐑹 𐑑𐑢𐑲𐑕; 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑕𐑨𐑑 𐑳𐑐 𐑯 𐑮𐑳𐑚𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑲𐑟.</p>
    <p>“𐑣𐑪𐑤𐑴!” 𐑣𐑰 𐑚𐑮𐑰𐑞𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑, “𐑣𐑵 𐑚𐑰 𐑘𐑰 𐑕𐑥𐑴𐑒𐑼𐑟?”</p>
    <p>“𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑑 𐑥𐑧𐑯,” 𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑼𐑛 𐑲, “𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑛𐑳𐑟 𐑖𐑰 𐑕𐑱𐑤?”</p>
    <p>“𐑲, 𐑲, 𐑘𐑰 𐑸 𐑜𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑻, 𐑚𐑰 𐑘𐑰? 𐑖𐑰 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑑-𐑛𐑱. 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑩𐑚𐑹𐑛 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑯𐑲𐑑.”</p>
    <p>“𐑢𐑪𐑑 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯?—𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚?”</p>
    <p>“𐑣𐑵 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑰𐑛?”</p>
    <p>𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑜𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑭𐑕𐑒 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑓𐑻𐑞𐑼 𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑕𐑗𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑢𐑰 𐑣𐑻𐑛 𐑩 𐑯𐑶𐑟 𐑪𐑯 𐑛𐑧𐑒.</p>
    <p>“𐑣𐑪𐑤𐑴! 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒'𐑕 𐑩𐑕𐑑𐑻,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑼. “𐑣𐑰'𐑟 𐑩 𐑤𐑲𐑝𐑤𐑦 𐑗𐑰𐑓 𐑥𐑱𐑑, 𐑞𐑨𐑑; 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑥𐑨𐑯, 𐑯 𐑩 𐑐𐑲𐑩𐑕; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑩𐑤𐑲𐑝 𐑯𐑬, 𐑲 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑑𐑻𐑯 𐑑.” 𐑯 𐑕𐑴 𐑕𐑱𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑛𐑧𐑒, 𐑯 𐑢𐑰 𐑓𐑪𐑤𐑴𐑛.</p>
    <p>𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑬 𐑒𐑤𐑽 𐑕𐑳𐑯𐑮𐑲𐑟. 𐑕𐑵𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑵 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑪𐑯 𐑚𐑹𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑑𐑵𐑟 𐑯 𐑔𐑮𐑰𐑟; 𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑼𐑟 𐑚𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑻𐑛 𐑞𐑧𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑝𐑟; 𐑞 𐑥𐑱𐑑𐑕 𐑢𐑻 𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑦𐑝𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑜𐑱𐑡𐑛; 𐑯 𐑕𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑞 𐑖𐑹 𐑐𐑰𐑐𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑻 𐑚𐑦𐑟𐑦 𐑦𐑯 𐑚𐑮𐑦𐑙𐑦𐑙 𐑝𐑺𐑾𐑕 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑪𐑯 𐑚𐑹𐑛. 𐑥𐑰𐑯𐑢𐑲𐑤 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑦𐑟𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑖𐑮𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑨𐑚𐑦𐑯.</p>
  </body>
</html>
