<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Chapter 54</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="chapter-54" xml:lang="en-US">
      <h2 id="chapterheader-54">·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 54. 𐑞 ·𐑑𐑬𐑯-·𐑣𐑴'𐑟 ·𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑦.</h2>
    </div>
    <p>(<i>𐑨𐑟 𐑑𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑜𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑩𐑯 ·𐑦𐑯.</i>)</p>
    <p>𐑞 ·𐑒𐑱𐑐 𐑝 𐑜𐑫𐑛 ·𐑣𐑴𐑐, 𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑮𐑰𐑡𐑩𐑯 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑞𐑺, 𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑯𐑴𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑓𐑹 𐑒𐑹𐑯𐑼𐑟 𐑝 𐑩 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑣𐑲𐑢𐑱, 𐑢𐑺 𐑿 𐑥𐑰𐑑 𐑥𐑹 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑼𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑐𐑸𐑑.</p>
    <p>𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑞 ·𐑜𐑪𐑯𐑦 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑩𐑯𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑣𐑴𐑥𐑢𐑼𐑛-𐑚𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑥𐑩𐑯, 𐑞 ·𐑑𐑬𐑯-·𐑣𐑴,* 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑛. 𐑖𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑲 ·𐑐𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑯𐑰𐑟𐑾𐑯𐑟. 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑖𐑹𐑑 𐑜𐑨𐑥 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑿𐑛 𐑖𐑰 𐑜𐑱𐑝 𐑳𐑕 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑪𐑙 𐑯𐑿𐑟 𐑝 ·𐑥𐑪𐑚𐑦 ·𐑛𐑦𐑒. 𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑞 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑢𐑲𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑬 𐑢𐑲𐑤𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑩 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑑𐑬𐑯-·𐑣𐑴'𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑦, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑩𐑚𐑕𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑤𐑦 𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑪𐑤𐑝 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑩 𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑕, 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑝𐑦𐑟𐑦𐑑𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑕𐑴 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛 𐑡𐑳𐑡𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑝 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑨𐑑 𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑸 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑑 𐑴𐑝𐑼𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑥𐑧𐑯. 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑤𐑨𐑑𐑼 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑕, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑴𐑯 𐑐𐑼𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑼 𐑩𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕, 𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑥𐑱 𐑚𐑰 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛 𐑞 𐑕𐑰𐑒𐑮𐑩𐑑 𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑡𐑩𐑛𐑦 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑯𐑼𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑮𐑰𐑗𐑑 𐑞 𐑽𐑟 𐑝 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑹 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑱𐑑𐑕. 𐑓 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑒𐑮𐑩𐑑 𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑦 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑳𐑯𐑯𐑴𐑯 𐑑 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑑𐑬𐑯-·𐑣𐑴 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓. 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑝𐑩𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑐𐑼𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑓𐑧𐑛𐑼𐑩𐑑 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑝 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑖𐑦𐑐, 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑣𐑵𐑥, 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑟, 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑿𐑯𐑦𐑒𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑑 ·𐑑𐑨𐑖𐑑𐑱𐑜𐑴 𐑢𐑦𐑞 ·𐑮𐑴𐑥𐑦𐑖 𐑦𐑯𐑡𐑳𐑙𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑕𐑰𐑒𐑮𐑩𐑕𐑦, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑓𐑪𐑤𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑯𐑲𐑑 ·𐑑𐑨𐑖𐑑𐑱𐑜𐑴 𐑮𐑨𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐, 𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑰𐑤𐑛 𐑕𐑴 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑝 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑱, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑢𐑱𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑞 𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑. 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑞𐑩𐑤𐑧𐑕, 𐑕𐑴 𐑐𐑴𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑤𐑵𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑪𐑯 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛 𐑣𐑵 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑑 𐑞 𐑓𐑫𐑤 𐑯𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑡 𐑝 𐑦𐑑, 𐑯 𐑚𐑲 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡 𐑛𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑕𐑦, 𐑑 𐑒𐑷𐑤 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑴, 𐑢𐑻 𐑞𐑱 𐑜𐑳𐑝𐑼𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑼, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑱 𐑒𐑧𐑐𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑰𐑒𐑮𐑩𐑑 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑞𐑧𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑝𐑟 𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑐𐑲𐑼𐑛 𐑩𐑚𐑭𐑓𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛'𐑟 𐑥𐑱𐑯-𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑. 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑢𐑰𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑐𐑼 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑛𐑸𐑒𐑼 𐑔𐑮𐑧𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑦 𐑨𐑟 𐑐𐑳𐑚𐑤𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑦 𐑯𐑼𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐, 𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡 𐑩𐑓𐑺 𐑲 𐑯𐑬 𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑕𐑰𐑛 𐑑 𐑐𐑫𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑹𐑛.</p>
    <p>*𐑞 𐑱𐑯𐑗𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑒𐑮𐑲 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑲𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑-𐑣𐑧𐑛, 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑿𐑟𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑓𐑱𐑥𐑩𐑕 ·𐑜𐑨𐑤𐑲𐑐𐑩𐑜𐑴𐑟 𐑑𐑧𐑮𐑩𐑐𐑦𐑯.</p>
    <p>𐑓 𐑥𐑲 𐑣𐑿𐑥𐑼'𐑟 𐑕𐑱𐑒, 𐑲 𐑖𐑨𐑤 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑻𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑲𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑲 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕 𐑯𐑼𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑨𐑑 ·𐑤𐑰𐑥𐑩, 𐑑 𐑩 𐑤𐑬𐑯𐑡𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑥𐑲 ·𐑕𐑐𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑖 𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑟, 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑕𐑱𐑯𐑑'𐑕 𐑰𐑝, 𐑕𐑥𐑴𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑔𐑦𐑒-𐑜𐑦𐑤𐑑 𐑑𐑲𐑤𐑛 𐑐𐑦𐑨𐑑𐑕𐑩 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑜𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑩𐑯 ·𐑦𐑯. 𐑝 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑓𐑲𐑯 𐑒𐑨𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑽𐑟, 𐑞 𐑘𐑳𐑙 ·𐑛𐑪𐑯𐑟, ·𐑐𐑧𐑛𐑮𐑴 𐑯 ·𐑕𐑦𐑚𐑨𐑕𐑗𐑩𐑯, 𐑢𐑻 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑤𐑴𐑟𐑼 𐑑𐑻𐑥𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑥𐑰; 𐑯 𐑣𐑧𐑯𐑕 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑤𐑵𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑕𐑗𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑞𐑱 𐑩𐑒𐑱𐑠𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑫𐑑, 𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑸 𐑛𐑵𐑤𐑦 𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑼𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑑𐑲𐑥.</p>
    <p>“𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑑𐑵 𐑘𐑽𐑟 𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑼 𐑑 𐑥𐑲 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑤𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑦𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑲 𐑨𐑥 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑣𐑻𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑿, 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑞 ·𐑑𐑬𐑯-·𐑣𐑴, ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑼 𐑝 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑘𐑹 ·𐑐𐑩𐑕𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒 𐑣𐑽, 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑛𐑱𐑟' 𐑕𐑱𐑤 𐑰𐑕𐑑𐑢𐑼𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑰𐑝𐑟 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑜𐑫𐑛 ·𐑜𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑩𐑯 ·𐑦𐑯. 𐑖𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑢𐑺 𐑑 𐑞 𐑯𐑹𐑔𐑢𐑼𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑤𐑲𐑯. 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑥𐑹𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑐𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑕, 𐑩𐑒𐑹𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑛𐑱𐑤𐑦 𐑿𐑕𐑦𐑡, 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩𐑚𐑟𐑻𐑝𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑖𐑰 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑥𐑹 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑻 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑯. 𐑞𐑱 𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑴𐑟𐑛 𐑩 𐑕𐑹𐑛-𐑓𐑦𐑖 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑚𐑛 𐑣𐑻, 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯, 𐑣𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑳𐑯𐑿𐑠𐑵𐑩𐑤 𐑮𐑰𐑟𐑩𐑯 𐑓 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑰𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑮𐑺 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑤𐑳𐑒 𐑩𐑢𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑤𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛𐑟; 𐑯 𐑞𐑺𐑓𐑹 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑩𐑝𐑻𐑕 𐑑 𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑥, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑤𐑰𐑒 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑼𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑛𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑼𐑩𐑕, 𐑞𐑴, 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑰𐑛, 𐑞𐑱 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑕𐑻𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑨𐑟 𐑤𐑴 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑐𐑪𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑮𐑭𐑞𐑼 𐑣𐑧𐑝𐑦 𐑢𐑧𐑞𐑼, 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑿𐑛 𐑣𐑻 𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑟𐑦𐑙𐑟, 𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑯𐑼𐑟 𐑢𐑻𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑐𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑕 𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑲𐑛 𐑯 𐑰𐑟𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑟; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑯𐑴 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑤𐑳𐑒 𐑒𐑱𐑥; 𐑥𐑹 𐑛𐑱𐑟 𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑚𐑲, 𐑯 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑤𐑰𐑒 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑳𐑝𐑼𐑛, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑕𐑑. 𐑕𐑴 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑕𐑴, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑯𐑬 𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑩𐑤𐑸𐑥, 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯, 𐑥𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑷𐑤 𐑕𐑱𐑤, 𐑕𐑑𐑫𐑛 𐑩𐑢𐑱 𐑓 𐑞 𐑯𐑽𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑸𐑚𐑼 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑞 𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑟, 𐑞𐑺 𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑳𐑤 𐑣𐑴𐑝 𐑬𐑑 𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑺𐑛.</p>
    <p>“𐑞𐑴 𐑯𐑴 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤 𐑐𐑨𐑕𐑦𐑡 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑣𐑻, 𐑘𐑧𐑑, 𐑦𐑓 𐑞 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑗𐑭𐑯𐑕 𐑓𐑱𐑝𐑼𐑛, 𐑣𐑰 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑓𐑽 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑢𐑱, 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑪𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑕 𐑢𐑻 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑧𐑕𐑑, 𐑯 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑐𐑽𐑦𐑪𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑰𐑝𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑥, 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑕-𐑯-𐑔𐑻𐑑𐑦 𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑰𐑟𐑦𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑰𐑐 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑓𐑮𐑰; 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑓 𐑞 𐑤𐑰𐑒 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑛𐑳𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑻. 𐑦𐑯 𐑑𐑮𐑵𐑔, 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑯𐑲 𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑐𐑨𐑕𐑦𐑡 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑕𐑐𐑼𐑩𐑕 𐑚𐑮𐑰𐑟𐑩𐑟, 𐑞 ·𐑑𐑬𐑯-·𐑣𐑴 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑷𐑤 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑼𐑲𐑝𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑐𐑻𐑓𐑦𐑒𐑑 𐑕𐑱𐑓𐑑𐑦 𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑻 𐑐𐑹𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑 𐑞 𐑩𐑒𐑳𐑮𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑤𐑰𐑕𐑑 𐑓𐑩𐑑𐑨𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑦, 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑓 𐑞 𐑚𐑮𐑵𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑴𐑝𐑼𐑚𐑺𐑦𐑙 𐑝 ·𐑮𐑨𐑛𐑯𐑦, 𐑞 𐑥𐑱𐑑, 𐑩 ·𐑝𐑦𐑯𐑘𐑼𐑛𐑼, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑼𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑝𐑴𐑒𐑑 𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑡𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑝 ·𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑑, 𐑩 ·𐑤𐑱𐑒𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑯 𐑛𐑧𐑕𐑐𐑼𐑭𐑛𐑴 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 ·𐑚𐑳𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑴.</p>
    <p>“'𐑤𐑱𐑒𐑥𐑩𐑯!—𐑚𐑳𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑴! 𐑐𐑮𐑱, 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑩 ·𐑤𐑱𐑒𐑥𐑩𐑯, 𐑯 𐑢𐑺 𐑦𐑟 ·𐑚𐑳𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑴?' 𐑕𐑧𐑛 ·𐑛𐑪𐑯 ·𐑕𐑦𐑚𐑨𐑕𐑗𐑩𐑯, 𐑮𐑲𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑙𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑨𐑑 𐑝 𐑜𐑮𐑭𐑕.</p>
    <p>“𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑰𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑯 𐑖𐑹 𐑝 𐑬𐑼 ·𐑤𐑱𐑒 ·𐑽𐑦, ·𐑛𐑪𐑯; 𐑚𐑳𐑑—𐑲 𐑒𐑮𐑱𐑝 𐑘𐑹 𐑒𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑕𐑦—𐑥𐑱 𐑚𐑰, 𐑿 𐑖𐑨𐑤 𐑕𐑵𐑯 𐑣𐑽 𐑓𐑻𐑞𐑼 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑨𐑑. 𐑯𐑬, 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑒𐑢𐑺-𐑕𐑱𐑤 𐑚𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑟 𐑯 𐑔𐑮𐑰-𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑕, 𐑢𐑧𐑤-𐑯𐑲 𐑨𐑟 𐑤𐑸𐑡 𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑬𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑛 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑘𐑹 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑒𐑲𐑬 𐑑 𐑓𐑸 ·𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑤𐑩; 𐑞𐑦𐑕 ·𐑤𐑱𐑒𐑥𐑩𐑯, 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛-𐑤𐑪𐑒𐑑 𐑣𐑸𐑑 𐑝 𐑬𐑼 ·𐑩𐑥𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩, 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑯𐑻𐑗𐑼𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑩𐑜𐑮𐑼𐑾𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑰𐑚𐑵𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑐𐑪𐑐𐑿𐑤𐑼𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑴𐑐𐑩𐑯 𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯. 𐑓 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑓𐑤𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑜𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑩𐑑, 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑜𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑖-𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼 𐑕𐑰𐑟 𐑝 𐑬𐑼𐑟,—·𐑽𐑦, 𐑯 ·𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑺𐑦𐑴, 𐑯 ·𐑣𐑿𐑮𐑪𐑯, 𐑯 ·𐑕𐑵𐑐𐑽𐑽, 𐑯 ·𐑥𐑦𐑖𐑦𐑜𐑩𐑯,—𐑐𐑩𐑟𐑧𐑕 𐑩𐑯 𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯-𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑝𐑯𐑩𐑕, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑝 𐑞 𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯'𐑟 𐑯𐑴𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑕; 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑝 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑛 𐑝𐑼𐑲𐑩𐑑𐑦𐑟 𐑝 𐑮𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑯 𐑝 𐑒𐑤𐑲𐑥𐑟. 𐑞𐑱 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑱𐑯 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑸𐑒𐑦𐑐𐑧𐑤𐑩𐑜𐑴𐑟 𐑝 𐑮𐑴𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑲𐑤𐑟, 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑯𐑰𐑟𐑾𐑯 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑛𐑵; 𐑦𐑯 𐑤𐑸𐑡 𐑐𐑸𐑑, 𐑸 𐑖𐑹𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑑𐑵 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑯𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟, 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 ·𐑩𐑑𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑦𐑟; 𐑞𐑱 𐑓𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑖 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑥𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑩𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑗𐑩𐑟 𐑑 𐑬𐑼 𐑯𐑿𐑥𐑼𐑩𐑕 𐑑𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑹𐑾𐑤 𐑒𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 ·𐑰𐑕𐑑, 𐑛𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑷𐑤 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑞𐑺 𐑚𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑕; 𐑣𐑽 𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑸 𐑓𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑚𐑲 𐑚𐑨𐑑𐑼𐑦𐑟, 𐑯 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑜𐑴𐑑-𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑒𐑮𐑨𐑜𐑦 𐑜𐑳𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑤𐑪𐑓𐑑𐑦 ·𐑥𐑨𐑒𐑦𐑯𐑷; 𐑞𐑱 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑣𐑻𐑛 𐑞 𐑓𐑤𐑰𐑑 𐑔𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑝 𐑯𐑱𐑝𐑩𐑤 𐑝𐑦𐑒𐑑𐑼𐑦𐑟; 𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑟, 𐑞𐑱 𐑘𐑰𐑤𐑛 𐑞𐑺 𐑚𐑰𐑗𐑩𐑟 𐑑 𐑢𐑲𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑸𐑚𐑼𐑾𐑯𐑟, 𐑣𐑵𐑟 𐑮𐑧𐑛 𐑐𐑱𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑓𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑓𐑤𐑨𐑖 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑬𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑐𐑧𐑤𐑑𐑮𐑦 𐑢𐑦𐑜𐑢𐑭𐑥𐑟; 𐑓 𐑤𐑰𐑜𐑟 𐑯 𐑤𐑰𐑜𐑟 𐑸 𐑓𐑤𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑱𐑯𐑗𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑯 𐑳𐑯𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑛 𐑓𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑕, 𐑢𐑺 𐑞 𐑜𐑷𐑯𐑑 𐑐𐑲𐑯𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑕𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑛 𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑒𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑜𐑪𐑔𐑦𐑒 𐑡𐑰𐑯𐑦𐑨𐑤𐑩𐑡𐑦𐑟; 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑢𐑫𐑛𐑟 𐑣𐑸𐑚𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑲𐑤𐑛 ·𐑨𐑓𐑮𐑦𐑒 𐑚𐑰𐑕𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑐𐑮𐑱, 𐑯 𐑕𐑦𐑤𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑗𐑼𐑟 𐑣𐑵𐑟 𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑹𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑓𐑻𐑟 𐑜𐑦𐑝 𐑮𐑴𐑚𐑟 𐑑 ·𐑑𐑸𐑑𐑼 ·𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑼𐑼𐑟; 𐑞𐑱 𐑥𐑦𐑮𐑼 𐑞 𐑐𐑱𐑝𐑛 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑝 ·𐑚𐑳𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑴 𐑯 ·𐑒𐑤𐑰𐑝𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛, 𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑨𐑟 ·𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑚𐑱𐑜𐑴 𐑝𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑟; 𐑞𐑱 𐑓𐑤𐑴𐑑 𐑩𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞 𐑓𐑫𐑤-𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑛 𐑥𐑻𐑗𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑖𐑦𐑐, 𐑞 𐑸𐑥𐑛 𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑟𐑼 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑑, 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑥𐑼, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑰𐑗 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑵; 𐑞𐑱 𐑸 𐑕𐑢𐑧𐑐𐑑 𐑚𐑲 ·𐑚𐑹𐑾𐑯 𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑕 𐑨𐑟 𐑛𐑲𐑼𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑨𐑟 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑨𐑖 𐑞 𐑕𐑷𐑤𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑱𐑝; 𐑞𐑱 𐑯𐑴 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑕 𐑸, 𐑓 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑕𐑲𐑑 𐑝 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛, 𐑣𐑬𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑦𐑯𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛, 𐑞𐑱 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑛𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑓𐑫𐑤 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑩 𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑯𐑲𐑑 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑷𐑤 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑖𐑮𐑰𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑮𐑵. 𐑞𐑳𐑕, 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑞𐑴 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑼, ·𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑢𐑲𐑤𐑛-𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑚𐑹𐑯, 𐑯 𐑢𐑲𐑤𐑛-𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑯𐑻𐑗𐑼𐑛; 𐑨𐑟 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑝 𐑩𐑯 𐑷𐑛𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑕 𐑥𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑯𐑼 𐑨𐑟 𐑧𐑯𐑦. 𐑯 𐑓 ·𐑮𐑨𐑛𐑯𐑦, 𐑞𐑴 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦 𐑣𐑰 𐑥𐑱 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑤𐑱𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑤𐑴𐑯 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑 𐑚𐑰𐑗, 𐑑 𐑯𐑻𐑕 𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑩𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑰; 𐑞𐑴 𐑦𐑯 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑤𐑲𐑓 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑓𐑪𐑤𐑴𐑛 𐑬𐑼 𐑷𐑕𐑑𐑽 ·𐑩𐑑𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑯 𐑘𐑹 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑩𐑑𐑦𐑝 ·𐑐𐑩𐑕𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒; 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑡𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑯 𐑓𐑫𐑤 𐑝 𐑕𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑮𐑩𐑤 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑚𐑨𐑒𐑢𐑫𐑛𐑟 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑩𐑯, 𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑖 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑤𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛𐑟 𐑝 𐑚𐑳𐑒-𐑣𐑹𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑤𐑛 ·𐑚𐑴𐑦-𐑯𐑲𐑝𐑟. 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞𐑦𐑕 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑𐑼 𐑩 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑜𐑫𐑛-𐑣𐑸𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑕; 𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 ·𐑤𐑱𐑒𐑥𐑩𐑯, 𐑩 𐑥𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑯𐑼, 𐑣𐑵 𐑞𐑴 𐑩 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑛𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑰𐑛, 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑤𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑓𐑻𐑥𐑯𐑩𐑕, 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑑𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑼𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑛𐑰𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦 𐑝 𐑣𐑿𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑩𐑜𐑯𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑥𐑰𐑯𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑤𐑱𐑝'𐑟 𐑮𐑲𐑑; 𐑞𐑳𐑕 𐑑𐑮𐑰𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑞𐑦𐑕 ·𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑸𐑥𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑯 𐑛𐑴𐑕𐑲𐑤. 𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑦𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑕, 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑐𐑮𐑵𐑝𐑛 𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑳𐑕 𐑓𐑸; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 ·𐑮𐑨𐑛𐑯𐑦 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑛𐑵𐑥𐑛 𐑯 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑥𐑨𐑛, 𐑯 ·𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑑—𐑚𐑳𐑑, 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑿 𐑖𐑨𐑤 𐑣𐑽.</p>
    <p>“𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑥𐑹 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑩 𐑛𐑱 𐑹 𐑑𐑵 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑞𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑻 𐑐𐑮𐑬 𐑓 𐑣𐑻 𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑱𐑝𐑩𐑯, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑑𐑬𐑯-·𐑣𐑴'𐑟 𐑤𐑰𐑒 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑕𐑦𐑙, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑴 𐑨𐑟 𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑼 𐑩𐑯 𐑬𐑼 𐑹 𐑥𐑹 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑐𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑕 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑛𐑱. 𐑿 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑯𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑯 𐑕𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑤𐑲𐑟𐑛 𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑬𐑼 ·𐑩𐑑𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑒, 𐑓 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑭𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑤, 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑕𐑒𐑦𐑐𐑼𐑟 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑐𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑺 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑢𐑱 𐑩𐑒𐑮𐑪𐑕 𐑦𐑑; 𐑞𐑴 𐑝 𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤, 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐𐑦 𐑯𐑲𐑑, 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑞 𐑪𐑓𐑦𐑕𐑼 𐑝 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑒 𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑩𐑯 𐑑 𐑓𐑼𐑜𐑧𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑿𐑑𐑦 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑑, 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑚𐑩𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑚𐑰 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑥𐑱𐑑𐑕 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑧𐑥𐑚𐑼 𐑦𐑑, 𐑪𐑯 𐑩𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑕𐑲𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑥. 𐑯𐑹 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑯 𐑕𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑡 𐑕𐑰𐑟 𐑓𐑸 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑿 𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑢𐑼𐑛, 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑷𐑤𐑑𐑩𐑜𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑳𐑯𐑿𐑠𐑵𐑩𐑤 𐑓 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑕 𐑑 𐑒𐑰𐑐 𐑒𐑤𐑨𐑙𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑐𐑳𐑥𐑐-𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑓𐑫𐑤 𐑒𐑹𐑩𐑕 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑓 𐑩 𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡 𐑝 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑤𐑧𐑙𐑔; 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑟, 𐑦𐑓 𐑦𐑑 𐑤𐑲 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑩 𐑑𐑪𐑤𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑒𐑕𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑴𐑕𐑑, 𐑹 𐑦𐑓 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑮𐑰𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑮𐑰𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑩𐑓𐑹𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑞𐑧𐑥. 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑩 𐑤𐑰𐑒𐑦 𐑝𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑱 𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑝 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼𐑟, 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑮𐑾𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑤𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑻 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑦𐑯𐑟 𐑑 𐑓𐑰𐑤 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑕.</p>
    <p>“𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑱 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 ·𐑑𐑬𐑯-·𐑣𐑴; 𐑕𐑴 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑣𐑻 𐑤𐑰𐑒 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕 𐑥𐑹, 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑑𐑮𐑵𐑔 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑻𐑯 𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑓𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑕𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑣𐑻 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑦; 𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑲 ·𐑮𐑨𐑛𐑯𐑦 𐑞 𐑥𐑱𐑑. 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑞 𐑳𐑐𐑼 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑣𐑶𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑖𐑰𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑴𐑥 𐑩𐑯𐑿, 𐑯 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑢𐑱 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑮𐑰𐑟. 𐑯𐑬 𐑞𐑦𐑕 ·𐑮𐑨𐑛𐑯𐑦, 𐑲 𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑴𐑟, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑨𐑟 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑩 𐑒𐑬𐑼𐑛, 𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑯𐑻𐑝𐑩𐑕 𐑨𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑣𐑧𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑝𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑑𐑳𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯 𐑐𐑻𐑕𐑩𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑓𐑽𐑤𐑩𐑕, 𐑳𐑯𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑗𐑼 𐑪𐑯 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑹 𐑪𐑯 𐑕𐑰 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑿 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑝𐑰𐑯𐑾𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑥𐑨𐑡𐑦𐑯, 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯. 𐑞𐑺𐑓𐑹 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑛 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑓𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐, 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑺𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑪𐑯 𐑩𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑴𐑯𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑻. 𐑕𐑴 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞𐑱 𐑢𐑻 𐑢𐑻𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑰𐑝𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑐𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑕, 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑪𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑯𐑴 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤 𐑜𐑱𐑥𐑕𐑩𐑥𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑕𐑤𐑲𐑤𐑦 𐑜𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑯 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑞𐑧𐑥, 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑱 𐑕𐑑𐑫𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑺 𐑓𐑰𐑑 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑿𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑴𐑝𐑼𐑓𐑤𐑴𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑤𐑽 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼; 𐑒𐑤𐑽 𐑨𐑟 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑥𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑙, 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯—𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑚𐑳𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑐𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑕 𐑮𐑨𐑯 𐑩𐑒𐑮𐑪𐑕 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑒, 𐑯 𐑐𐑹𐑛 𐑦𐑑𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑬𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑛𐑦 𐑕𐑐𐑬𐑑𐑕 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑤𐑰 𐑕𐑒𐑳𐑐𐑼-𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑟.</p>
    <p>“𐑯𐑬, 𐑨𐑟 𐑿 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑯𐑴, 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑛𐑩𐑥 𐑞 𐑒𐑱𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛 𐑝 𐑬𐑼𐑟—𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑹 𐑳𐑞𐑼𐑢𐑲𐑟; 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑩 𐑐𐑻𐑕𐑩𐑯 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑛 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑧𐑤𐑴-𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑕𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑵𐑐𐑽𐑽 𐑦𐑯 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑛 𐑝 𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑣𐑫𐑛, 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑢𐑱 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑰𐑝𐑟 𐑩𐑯 𐑳𐑯𐑒𐑪𐑙𐑒𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑼𐑯𐑧𐑕; 𐑯 𐑦𐑓 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑩 𐑗𐑭𐑯𐑕 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑐𐑫𐑤 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑯 𐑐𐑳𐑤𐑝𐑼𐑲𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑑𐑼𐑯'𐑟 𐑑𐑬𐑼, 𐑯 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑣𐑰𐑐 𐑝 𐑛𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑦𐑑. 𐑚𐑰 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑰𐑑 𐑝 𐑥𐑲𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑥𐑱, 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑦𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑕 ·𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑑𐑷𐑤 𐑯 𐑯𐑴𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 ·𐑮𐑴𐑥𐑩𐑯, 𐑯 𐑩 𐑓𐑤𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑜𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑚𐑽𐑛 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞 𐑑𐑨𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑣𐑬𐑟𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑝 𐑘𐑹 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑝𐑲𐑕𐑮𐑶'𐑟 𐑕𐑯𐑹𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑗𐑸𐑡𐑼; 𐑯 𐑩 𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑯, 𐑯 𐑩 𐑣𐑸𐑑, 𐑯 𐑩 𐑕𐑴𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑥𐑱𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑑 ·𐑖𐑸𐑤𐑩𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑘𐑩, 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑣𐑰 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑚𐑹𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑯 𐑑 ·𐑖𐑸𐑤𐑩𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑘𐑩'𐑟 𐑓𐑭𐑞𐑼. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 ·𐑮𐑨𐑛𐑯𐑦, 𐑞 𐑥𐑱𐑑, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑳𐑜𐑤𐑦 𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑥𐑿𐑤; 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑸𐑛𐑦, 𐑨𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚𐑼𐑯, 𐑨𐑟 𐑥𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑕. 𐑣𐑰 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑤𐑳𐑝 ·𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑑, 𐑯 ·𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑑 𐑯𐑿 𐑦𐑑.</p>
    <p>“𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑲𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑥𐑱𐑑 𐑛𐑮𐑷𐑦𐑙 𐑯𐑽 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑑𐑶𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑐𐑳𐑥𐑐 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑, 𐑞 ·𐑤𐑱𐑒𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑩𐑓𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑑 𐑯𐑴𐑑𐑦𐑕 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑿𐑯𐑷𐑛, 𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑜𐑱 𐑚𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑦𐑙𐑟.</p>
    <p>“'𐑲, 𐑲, 𐑥𐑲 𐑥𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑤𐑨𐑛𐑟, 𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑩 𐑤𐑲𐑝𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑰𐑒 𐑞𐑦𐑕; 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑩 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑒𐑦𐑯, 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑘𐑰, 𐑯 𐑤𐑧𐑑'𐑕 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑩 𐑑𐑱𐑕𐑑. 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 ·𐑤𐑹𐑛, 𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑢𐑻𐑔 𐑚𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙! 𐑲 𐑑𐑧𐑤 𐑘𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑑, 𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑮𐑨𐑛'𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑜𐑴 𐑓 𐑦𐑑! 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑒𐑳𐑑 𐑩𐑢𐑱 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑣𐑳𐑤 𐑯 𐑑𐑴 𐑦𐑑 𐑣𐑴𐑥. 𐑞 𐑓𐑨𐑒𐑑 𐑦𐑟, 𐑚𐑶𐑟, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑹𐑛-𐑓𐑦𐑖 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑨𐑯 𐑞 𐑡𐑪𐑚; 𐑣𐑰'𐑟 𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑚𐑨𐑒 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑜𐑨𐑙 𐑝 𐑖𐑦𐑐-𐑒𐑸𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑟, 𐑕𐑷-𐑓𐑦𐑖, 𐑯 𐑓𐑲𐑤-𐑓𐑦𐑖, 𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑑; 𐑯 𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑐𐑪𐑕𐑦 𐑝 '𐑩𐑥 𐑸 𐑯𐑬 𐑣𐑸𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑻𐑒 𐑒𐑳𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑯 𐑕𐑤𐑨𐑖𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑥; 𐑥𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑮𐑵𐑝𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕, 𐑲 𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑴𐑟. 𐑦𐑓 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑮𐑨𐑛 𐑢𐑻 𐑣𐑽 𐑯𐑬, 𐑲'𐑛 𐑑𐑧𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑑 𐑡𐑳𐑥𐑐 𐑴𐑝𐑼𐑚𐑹𐑛 𐑯 𐑕𐑒𐑨𐑑𐑼 '𐑩𐑥. 𐑞𐑱'𐑼 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑑, 𐑲 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑑𐑧𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑥. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑣𐑰'𐑟 𐑩 𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑤 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑕𐑴𐑤,—·𐑮𐑨𐑛, 𐑯 𐑩 𐑚𐑿𐑑𐑦 𐑑𐑵. 𐑚𐑶𐑟, 𐑞𐑱 𐑕𐑱 𐑞 𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑐𐑼𐑑𐑦 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑦𐑙-𐑜𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑩𐑟. 𐑲 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑦𐑓 𐑣𐑰'𐑛 𐑜𐑦𐑝 𐑩 𐑐𐑫𐑼 𐑛𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑥𐑰 𐑞 𐑥𐑪𐑛𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑴𐑟.'</p>
    <p>“'𐑛𐑨𐑥 𐑘𐑹 𐑲𐑟! 𐑢𐑪𐑑'𐑕 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑐𐑳𐑥𐑐 𐑕𐑑𐑪𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑓?' 𐑮𐑹𐑛 ·𐑮𐑨𐑛𐑯𐑦, 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑣𐑻𐑛 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼𐑟' 𐑑𐑷𐑒. '𐑔𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑩𐑢𐑱 𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑑!'</p>
    <p>“'𐑲, 𐑲, 𐑕𐑻,' 𐑕𐑧𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑑, 𐑥𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑑. '𐑤𐑲𐑝𐑤𐑦, 𐑚𐑶𐑟, 𐑤𐑲𐑝𐑤𐑦, 𐑯𐑬!' 𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑐𐑳𐑥𐑐 𐑒𐑤𐑨𐑙𐑛 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑓𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑦 𐑓𐑲𐑼-𐑧𐑯𐑡𐑦𐑯𐑟; 𐑞 𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑑𐑪𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑣𐑨𐑑𐑕 𐑪𐑓 𐑑 𐑦𐑑, 𐑯 𐑺 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑽 𐑜𐑭𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑞 𐑤𐑳𐑙𐑟 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑣𐑻𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑴𐑑𐑕 𐑞 𐑓𐑫𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑤𐑲𐑓'𐑕 𐑳𐑑𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑡𐑦𐑟.</p>
    <p>“𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑐𐑳𐑥𐑐 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑨𐑯𐑛, 𐑞 ·𐑤𐑱𐑒𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑓𐑹𐑢𐑼𐑛 𐑷𐑤 𐑐𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑙, 𐑯 𐑕𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑩𐑕; 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑱𐑕 𐑓𐑲𐑼𐑦 𐑮𐑧𐑛, 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑲𐑟 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑛𐑖𐑪𐑑, 𐑯 𐑢𐑲𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑓𐑿𐑕 𐑕𐑢𐑧𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑮𐑬. 𐑯𐑬 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑒𐑳𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑰𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟, 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑐𐑩𐑟𐑧𐑕𐑑 ·𐑮𐑨𐑛𐑯𐑦 𐑑 𐑥𐑧𐑛𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑒𐑹𐑐𐑹𐑾𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑨𐑕𐑐𐑼𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑑, 𐑲 𐑯𐑴 𐑯𐑪𐑑; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑴 𐑦𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑛. 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑪𐑤𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑒, 𐑞 𐑥𐑱𐑑 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑑 𐑜𐑧𐑑 𐑩 𐑚𐑮𐑵𐑥 𐑯 𐑕𐑢𐑰𐑐 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑤𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑕, 𐑯 𐑷𐑤𐑕𐑴 𐑩 𐑖𐑳𐑝𐑩𐑤, 𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑵𐑝 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑩𐑓𐑧𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑝 𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑢𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑩𐑤𐑬𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑐𐑦𐑜 𐑑 𐑮𐑳𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑸𐑡.</p>
    <p>“𐑯𐑬, 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑕𐑢𐑰𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑖𐑦𐑐'𐑕 𐑛𐑧𐑒 𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑰 𐑦𐑟 𐑩 𐑐𐑰𐑕 𐑝 𐑣𐑬𐑕𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑢𐑻𐑒 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑦𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑮𐑱𐑡𐑦𐑙 𐑜𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑦𐑟 𐑮𐑧𐑜𐑿𐑤𐑼𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑑 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑰𐑝𐑯𐑦𐑙; 𐑦𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑯𐑴𐑯 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑛𐑳𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑱𐑕 𐑝 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑕 𐑨𐑒𐑗𐑵𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑑𐑲𐑥. 𐑕𐑳𐑗, 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑤𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑕𐑰-𐑿𐑕𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑟 𐑯 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑑𐑦𐑝 𐑤𐑳𐑝 𐑝 𐑯𐑰𐑑𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑧𐑯; 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑝 𐑣𐑵𐑥 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑮𐑬𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑖𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑺 𐑓𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑟. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑝𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑚𐑮𐑵𐑥 𐑚𐑦𐑟𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑝 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑝𐑦𐑯𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑶𐑟, 𐑦𐑓 𐑚𐑶𐑟 𐑞𐑺 𐑚𐑰 𐑩𐑚𐑹𐑛. 𐑚𐑦𐑕𐑲𐑛𐑟, 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑪𐑙𐑜𐑼 𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑑𐑬𐑯-·𐑣𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑝𐑲𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑜𐑨𐑙𐑟, 𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑟 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑐𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑕; 𐑯 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑨𐑔𐑤𐑧𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑷𐑤, ·𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑮𐑧𐑜𐑿𐑤𐑼𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑕𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 𐑝 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑜𐑨𐑙𐑟; 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑢𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑰 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑰𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑾𐑤 𐑚𐑦𐑟𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑑𐑮𐑵𐑤𐑦 𐑯𐑷𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑛𐑿𐑑𐑦𐑟, 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑒𐑱𐑕 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑮𐑱𐑛𐑟. 𐑲 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑐𐑼𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑼𐑟 𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑿 𐑥𐑱 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑬 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑩𐑓𐑺 𐑕𐑑𐑫𐑛 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑢𐑰𐑯 𐑞 𐑑𐑵 𐑥𐑧𐑯.</p>
    <p>“𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑥𐑹 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕: 𐑞 𐑹𐑛𐑼 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑞 𐑖𐑳𐑝𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑳𐑤𐑑 ·𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑑, 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑴 ·𐑮𐑨𐑛𐑯𐑦 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑕𐑐𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑱𐑕. 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑣𐑵 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑜𐑪𐑯 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑞𐑦𐑕; 𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑯 𐑛𐑬𐑑𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑥𐑹, 𐑞 ·𐑤𐑱𐑒𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑓𐑫𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑣𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑱𐑑 𐑳𐑑𐑼𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑛. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑓 𐑩 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑, 𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑛𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑥𐑱𐑑'𐑕 𐑥𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑲 𐑯 𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑰𐑝𐑛 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑒𐑕 𐑝 𐑐𐑬𐑛𐑼-𐑒𐑭𐑕𐑒𐑕 𐑣𐑰𐑐𐑑 𐑳𐑐 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑤𐑴-𐑥𐑨𐑗 𐑕𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑑𐑩𐑢𐑹𐑛𐑟 𐑞𐑧𐑥; 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑑𐑦𐑝𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑷 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑦𐑕, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡 𐑓𐑹𐑚𐑺𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑯 𐑳𐑯𐑢𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑙𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑻 𐑳𐑐 𐑞 𐑛𐑰𐑐𐑼 𐑐𐑨𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑑𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑷𐑤𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑦 𐑲𐑼𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙—𐑩 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑳𐑜𐑯𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑓𐑧𐑤𐑑, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑓𐑧𐑤𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤, 𐑚𐑲 𐑮𐑾𐑤𐑦 𐑝𐑨𐑤𐑾𐑯𐑑 𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑩𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑝𐑛—𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑯𐑱𐑥𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑓𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑥 𐑓𐑰𐑤𐑦𐑙, 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑤 𐑴𐑝𐑼 ·𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑑.</p>
    <p>“𐑞𐑺𐑓𐑹, 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑹𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑼𐑦 𐑑𐑴𐑯, 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑚𐑮𐑴𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑷𐑕𐑗𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑑𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑼𐑺𐑦𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯, 𐑣𐑰 𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑼𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑕𐑱𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑢𐑰𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑒 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑦𐑟𐑯𐑩𐑕, 𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑛𐑵 𐑦𐑑. 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑩𐑤𐑵𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑞 𐑖𐑳𐑝𐑩𐑤, 𐑣𐑰 𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑑 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑤𐑨𐑛𐑟 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑒𐑳𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑥𐑼𐑦 𐑕𐑢𐑰𐑐𐑼𐑟; 𐑣𐑵, 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑩𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑐𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑕, 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑛𐑳𐑯 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑹 𐑯𐑳𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑷𐑤 𐑛𐑱. 𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕, ·𐑮𐑨𐑛𐑯𐑦 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑤𐑲𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩𐑯 𐑴𐑔, 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑛𐑪𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑽𐑦𐑙 𐑯 𐑬𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑡𐑩𐑕 𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑼 𐑳𐑯𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑰𐑦𐑑𐑼𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑛; 𐑥𐑰𐑯𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑩𐑛𐑝𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑕𐑰𐑑𐑩𐑛 ·𐑤𐑱𐑒𐑥𐑩𐑯, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩𐑯 𐑳𐑐𐑤𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑒𐑵𐑐𐑼'𐑟 𐑒𐑤𐑳𐑚 𐑣𐑨𐑥𐑼 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑕𐑯𐑨𐑗𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑩 𐑒𐑭𐑕𐑒 𐑯𐑽 𐑚𐑲.</p>
    <p>“𐑣𐑰𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑯 𐑦𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑚𐑲 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑐𐑨𐑟𐑥𐑪𐑛𐑦𐑒 𐑑𐑶𐑤 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑐𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑕, 𐑓 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑯𐑱𐑥𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑓𐑰𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑓𐑹𐑚𐑺𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑞 𐑕𐑢𐑧𐑑𐑦𐑙 ·𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑑 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑤 𐑚𐑮𐑫𐑒 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑚𐑺𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑱𐑑; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑣𐑬 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑕𐑥𐑳𐑞𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑓𐑤𐑩𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑰 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑛𐑪𐑜𐑩𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑵𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑰𐑑, 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑕𐑑 ·𐑮𐑨𐑛𐑯𐑦 𐑖𐑫𐑒 𐑞 𐑣𐑨𐑥𐑼 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑓𐑿 𐑦𐑯𐑗𐑩𐑟 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑱𐑕, 𐑓𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑾𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑑 𐑛𐑵 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑦𐑛𐑦𐑙.</p>
    <p>“𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑑 𐑮𐑴𐑟, 𐑯 𐑕𐑤𐑴𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑮𐑰𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑩𐑕, 𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑪𐑤𐑴𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑥𐑱𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑩𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑨𐑥𐑼, 𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑚𐑼𐑩𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑰𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑑 𐑴𐑚𐑱. 𐑕𐑰𐑦𐑙, 𐑣𐑬𐑧𐑝𐑼, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑹𐑚𐑺𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑓𐑧𐑒𐑑, 𐑚𐑲 𐑩𐑯 𐑷𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑯 𐑳𐑯𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑥𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑢𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑹𐑯𐑛 𐑪𐑓 𐑞 𐑓𐑵𐑤𐑦𐑖 𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑨𐑗𐑵𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑥𐑨𐑯; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑑 𐑯𐑴 𐑐𐑻𐑐𐑩𐑕. 𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑱 𐑞 𐑑𐑵 𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕 𐑕𐑤𐑴𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑩𐑕; 𐑢𐑧𐑯, 𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑪𐑤𐑝𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑯𐑴 𐑤𐑪𐑙𐑜𐑼 𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑮𐑰𐑑, 𐑚𐑦𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑯𐑬 𐑓𐑹𐑚𐑹𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑨𐑟 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑹𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑿𐑥𐑼, 𐑞 ·𐑤𐑱𐑒𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑐𐑷𐑟𐑛 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑣𐑨𐑗𐑩𐑟 𐑯 𐑞𐑳𐑕 𐑕𐑐𐑴𐑒 𐑑 𐑞 𐑪𐑓𐑦𐑕𐑼:</p>
    <p>“'·𐑥𐑼 ·𐑮𐑨𐑛𐑯𐑦, 𐑲 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑴𐑚𐑱 𐑿. 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑥𐑼 𐑩𐑢𐑱, 𐑹 𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑑 𐑘𐑹𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓.' 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑰𐑛𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑥𐑱𐑑 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑒𐑤𐑴𐑕𐑼 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑢𐑺 𐑞 ·𐑤𐑱𐑒𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑫𐑛 𐑓𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑑, 𐑯𐑬 𐑖𐑫𐑒 𐑞 𐑣𐑧𐑝𐑦 𐑣𐑨𐑥𐑼 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑦𐑯 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑗 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑰𐑔; 𐑥𐑰𐑯𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑰𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑳𐑓𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑥𐑨𐑤𐑩𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟. 𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑮𐑰𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑞 𐑔𐑬𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑔 𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑝 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑗; 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑚𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑲 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑳𐑯𐑓𐑤𐑦𐑯𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑐𐑪𐑯𐑘𐑼𐑛 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑜𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕, ·𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑑, 𐑒𐑤𐑧𐑯𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑮𐑲𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑚𐑦𐑣𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑯 𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑐𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑮𐑷𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑑 𐑚𐑨𐑒, 𐑑𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑻𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑑𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑓 𐑞 𐑣𐑨𐑥𐑼 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑟𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑗𐑰𐑒 𐑣𐑰 (·𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑑) 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑥𐑻𐑛𐑼 𐑣𐑦𐑥. 𐑚𐑳𐑑, 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑞 𐑓𐑵𐑤 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑚𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑓 𐑞 𐑕𐑤𐑷𐑑𐑼 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑜𐑪𐑛𐑟. 𐑦𐑥𐑰𐑛𐑾𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑞 𐑣𐑨𐑥𐑼 𐑑𐑳𐑗𐑑 𐑞 𐑗𐑰𐑒; 𐑞 𐑯𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑞 𐑤𐑴𐑼 𐑡𐑷 𐑝 𐑞 𐑥𐑱𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑝 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑧𐑛; 𐑣𐑰 𐑓𐑧𐑤 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑣𐑨𐑗 𐑕𐑐𐑬𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑛 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤.</p>
    <p>“𐑺 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑲 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑜𐑴 𐑭𐑓𐑑 ·𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑖𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑨𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑟 𐑤𐑰𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑸 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑓𐑑 𐑑 𐑢𐑺 𐑑𐑵 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑮𐑱𐑛𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑺 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑟. 𐑞𐑱 𐑢𐑻 𐑚𐑴𐑔 ·𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑨𐑤𐑼𐑟.</p>
    <p>“'𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑨𐑤𐑼𐑟!' 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 ·𐑛𐑪𐑯 ·𐑐𐑧𐑛𐑮𐑴. '𐑢𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑕𐑰𐑯 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑬𐑼 𐑣𐑸𐑚𐑼𐑟, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑣𐑻𐑛 𐑝 𐑘𐑹 ·𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑨𐑤𐑼𐑟. 𐑐𐑸𐑛𐑩𐑯: 𐑣𐑵 𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑸 𐑞𐑱?'</p>
    <p>“'𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑨𐑤𐑼𐑟, ·𐑛𐑪𐑯, 𐑸 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑪𐑙𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑬𐑼 𐑜𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑛 ·𐑽𐑦 ·𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑨𐑤. 𐑿 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑣𐑻𐑛 𐑝 𐑦𐑑.'</p>
    <p>“'𐑯𐑱, ·𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑘𐑹; 𐑣𐑽𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑛𐑳𐑤, 𐑢𐑹𐑥, 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑤𐑱𐑟𐑦, 𐑯 𐑣𐑼𐑧𐑛𐑦𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛, 𐑢𐑰 𐑯𐑴 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑘𐑹 𐑝𐑦𐑜𐑼𐑩𐑕 ·𐑯𐑹𐑔.'</p>
    <p>“'𐑲? 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑞𐑧𐑯, ·𐑛𐑪𐑯, 𐑮𐑰𐑓𐑦𐑤 𐑥𐑲 𐑒𐑳𐑐. 𐑘𐑹 𐑗𐑦𐑗𐑩'𐑟 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑓𐑲𐑯; 𐑯 𐑺 𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑕𐑰𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑻𐑞𐑼 𐑲 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑑𐑧𐑤 𐑘𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑬𐑼 ·𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑨𐑤𐑼𐑟 𐑸; 𐑓 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑼𐑥𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑥𐑱 𐑔𐑮𐑴 𐑕𐑲𐑛-𐑤𐑲𐑑 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑥𐑲 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑦.'</p>
    <p>“𐑓 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑛 𐑯 𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑦 𐑥𐑲𐑤𐑟, 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑲𐑼 𐑚𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑔 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑑 𐑝 ·𐑯𐑿 ·𐑘𐑹𐑒; 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑯𐑿𐑥𐑼𐑩𐑕 𐑐𐑪𐑐𐑿𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑟 𐑯 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑔𐑮𐑲𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑝𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑟; 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑤𐑪𐑙, 𐑛𐑦𐑟𐑥𐑩𐑤, 𐑳𐑯𐑦𐑯𐑣𐑨𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑕𐑢𐑪𐑥𐑐𐑕, 𐑯 𐑨𐑓𐑤𐑵𐑩𐑯𐑑, 𐑒𐑳𐑤𐑑𐑦𐑝𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑓𐑰𐑤𐑛𐑟, 𐑳𐑯𐑮𐑲𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑓 𐑓𐑼𐑑𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑦; 𐑚𐑲 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑘𐑼𐑛-𐑮𐑵𐑥 𐑯 𐑚𐑸-𐑮𐑵𐑥; 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑦-𐑝-𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑦𐑟 𐑝 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑓𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑕; 𐑪𐑯 ·𐑮𐑴𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑸𐑗𐑩𐑟 𐑴𐑝𐑼 ·𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑾𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑼𐑟; 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑕𐑳𐑯 𐑯 𐑖𐑱𐑛; 𐑚𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑦 𐑣𐑸𐑑𐑕 𐑹 𐑚𐑮𐑴𐑒𐑩𐑯; 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑢𐑲𐑛 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑰𐑯𐑼𐑦 𐑝 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑯𐑴𐑚𐑩𐑤 ·𐑥𐑴𐑣𐑷𐑒 𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑟; 𐑯 𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑤𐑦, 𐑚𐑲 𐑮𐑴𐑟 𐑝 𐑕𐑯𐑴-𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑩𐑤𐑟, 𐑣𐑵𐑟 𐑕𐑐𐑲𐑼𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑥𐑲𐑤𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑯𐑟, 𐑓𐑤𐑴𐑟 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑿𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑰𐑥 𐑝 ·𐑝𐑩𐑯𐑰𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑼𐑳𐑐𐑑 𐑯 𐑪𐑓𐑩𐑯 𐑤𐑷𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑤𐑲𐑓. 𐑞𐑺'𐑟 𐑘𐑹 𐑑𐑮𐑵 ·𐑨𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑰, 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯; 𐑞𐑺 𐑣𐑬𐑤 𐑘𐑹 𐑐𐑱𐑜𐑩𐑯𐑟; 𐑢𐑺 𐑿 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑞𐑧𐑥, 𐑯𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑 𐑛𐑹 𐑑 𐑿; 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑞 𐑤𐑪𐑙-𐑓𐑤𐑳𐑙 𐑖𐑨𐑛𐑴, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑯𐑳𐑜 𐑐𐑨𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑯𐑲𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑰 𐑝 𐑗𐑻𐑗𐑩𐑟. 𐑓 𐑚𐑲 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑾𐑕 𐑓𐑩𐑑𐑨𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑦, 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑪𐑓𐑩𐑯 𐑯𐑴𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑝 𐑘𐑹 𐑥𐑧𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑰𐑚𐑵𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑱 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑨𐑥𐑐 𐑼𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑣𐑷𐑤𐑟 𐑝 𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑕, 𐑕𐑴 𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑼𐑟, 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑾𐑕𐑑 𐑝𐑦𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑟.</p>
    <p>“'𐑦𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑩 𐑓𐑮𐑲𐑼 𐑐𐑭𐑕𐑦𐑙?' 𐑕𐑧𐑛 ·𐑛𐑪𐑯 ·𐑐𐑧𐑛𐑮𐑴, 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑛𐑬𐑯𐑢𐑼𐑛𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑬𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑐𐑤𐑩𐑟𐑩, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑿𐑥𐑼𐑩𐑕 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑻𐑯.</p>
    <p>“'𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑓 𐑬𐑼 𐑯𐑹𐑞𐑼𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑯𐑛, ·𐑛𐑱𐑥 ·𐑦𐑟𐑩𐑚𐑧𐑤𐑩'𐑟 ·𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑟𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑯𐑟 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑤𐑰𐑥𐑩,' 𐑤𐑭𐑓𐑑 ·𐑛𐑪𐑯 ·𐑕𐑦𐑚𐑨𐑕𐑗𐑩𐑯. '𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑕𐑰𐑛, ·𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑘𐑹.'</p>
    <p>“'𐑩 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑! 𐑐𐑸𐑛𐑩𐑯!' 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 𐑩𐑯𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑝 𐑞 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑦. '𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑯𐑱𐑥 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑳𐑕 ·𐑤𐑲𐑥𐑰𐑟, 𐑲 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑟𐑲𐑼 𐑑 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑕 𐑑 𐑿, 𐑕𐑻 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑲 𐑯𐑴 𐑥𐑰𐑯𐑟 𐑴𐑝𐑼𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑑 𐑘𐑹 𐑛𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑕𐑦 𐑦𐑯 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑚𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑 ·𐑤𐑰𐑥𐑩 𐑓 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑 ·𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑦𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑘𐑹 𐑒𐑼𐑳𐑐𐑑 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑩𐑯. 𐑴! 𐑛𐑵 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑚𐑬 𐑯 𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑕𐑼𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑟𐑛; 𐑿 𐑯𐑴 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑝𐑻𐑚 𐑷𐑤 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑒𐑴𐑕𐑑—“𐑒𐑼𐑳𐑐𐑑 𐑨𐑟 ·𐑤𐑰𐑥𐑩.” 𐑦𐑑 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑚𐑺𐑟 𐑬𐑑 𐑘𐑹 𐑕𐑱𐑦𐑙, 𐑑𐑵; 𐑗𐑻𐑗𐑩𐑟 𐑥𐑹 𐑐𐑤𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑘𐑼𐑛-𐑑𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑟, 𐑯 𐑓 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑴𐑐𐑩𐑯—𐑯 “𐑒𐑼𐑳𐑐𐑑 𐑨𐑟 ·𐑤𐑰𐑥𐑩.” 𐑕𐑴, 𐑑𐑵, ·𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑦𐑕; 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑞𐑺; 𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑤𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑝𐑨𐑯𐑡𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑕𐑑, ·𐑕𐑑 ·𐑥𐑸𐑒!—𐑕𐑑 ·𐑛𐑪𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑒, 𐑐𐑻𐑡 𐑦𐑑! 𐑘𐑹 𐑒𐑳𐑐! 𐑔𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑕: 𐑣𐑽 𐑲 𐑮𐑰𐑓𐑦𐑤; 𐑯𐑬, 𐑿 𐑐𐑹 𐑬𐑑 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯.'</p>
    <p>“𐑓𐑮𐑰𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯 𐑝𐑴𐑒𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑨𐑤𐑼 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑩 𐑓𐑲𐑯 𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑣𐑽𐑴, 𐑕𐑴 𐑩𐑚𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑯 𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑗𐑼𐑧𐑕𐑒𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑦𐑒𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑰. 𐑤𐑲𐑒 ·𐑥𐑸𐑒 ·𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑦, 𐑓 𐑛𐑱𐑟 𐑯 𐑛𐑱𐑟 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑯-𐑑𐑻𐑓𐑑, 𐑓𐑤𐑬𐑼𐑦 ·𐑯𐑲𐑤, 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑤𐑴𐑑𐑕, 𐑴𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑑𐑶𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑮𐑧𐑛-𐑗𐑰𐑒𐑑 ·𐑒𐑤𐑦𐑴𐑐𐑨𐑑𐑮𐑩, 𐑮𐑲𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑱𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑪𐑑 𐑔𐑲 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑯𐑦 𐑛𐑧𐑒. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩𐑖𐑹, 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑦𐑓𐑧𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑕𐑦 𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑨𐑖𐑑. 𐑞 𐑚𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑖 𐑜𐑲𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑨𐑤𐑼 𐑕𐑴 𐑐𐑮𐑬𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑐𐑹𐑑𐑕; 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑤𐑬𐑗𐑑 𐑯 𐑜𐑱𐑤𐑦-𐑮𐑦𐑚𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑴𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑜𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑓𐑰𐑗𐑼𐑟. 𐑩 𐑑𐑧𐑮𐑼 𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑥𐑲𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑝𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑟 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑣𐑰 𐑓𐑤𐑴𐑑𐑕; 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑢𐑸𐑑 𐑝𐑦𐑟𐑦𐑡 𐑯 𐑚𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑕𐑢𐑨𐑜𐑼 𐑸 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑳𐑯𐑖𐑳𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑟. 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕 𐑩 𐑝𐑨𐑜𐑩𐑚𐑪𐑯𐑛 𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑨𐑤, 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑰𐑝𐑛 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑟 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞𐑰𐑟 ·𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑨𐑤𐑼𐑟; 𐑲 𐑔𐑨𐑙𐑒 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑣𐑸𐑑𐑦𐑤𐑦; 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑓𐑱𐑯 𐑚𐑰 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑳𐑯𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑓𐑩𐑤; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑪𐑓𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑥 𐑮𐑦𐑛𐑰𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑟 𐑝 𐑘𐑹 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑝 𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑕, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑨𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑓 𐑩𐑯 𐑸𐑥 𐑑 𐑚𐑨𐑒 𐑩 𐑐𐑫𐑼 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑, 𐑨𐑟 𐑑 𐑐𐑤𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑩 𐑢𐑧𐑤𐑔𐑦 𐑢𐑳𐑯. 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥, 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑲𐑤𐑛𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑨𐑤 𐑤𐑲𐑓 𐑦𐑟, 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑥𐑓𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑞𐑦𐑕; 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑬𐑼 𐑢𐑲𐑤𐑛 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑦 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑱𐑯𐑟 𐑕𐑴 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑝 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑓𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑖𐑑 𐑜𐑮𐑨𐑡𐑵𐑩𐑑𐑕, 𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑒𐑺𐑕 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑮𐑱𐑕 𐑝 𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑒𐑲𐑯𐑛, 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑧𐑐𐑑 ·𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑯𐑦 𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑸 𐑕𐑴 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑬𐑼 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑟. 𐑯𐑹 𐑛𐑳𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑛𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑖 𐑞 𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑾𐑕𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑼, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑑 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑔𐑬𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑝 𐑬𐑼 𐑮𐑫𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑚𐑶𐑟 𐑯 𐑘𐑳𐑙 𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑚𐑹𐑯 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑤𐑲𐑯, 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑚𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑼𐑦 𐑤𐑲𐑓 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑜𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑛 ·𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑨𐑤 𐑓𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑟 𐑞 𐑕𐑴𐑤 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑟𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑢𐑰𐑯 𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑩𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑰𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 ·𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑗𐑩𐑯 𐑒𐑹𐑯-𐑓𐑰𐑤𐑛, 𐑯 𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑤𐑬𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑸𐑚𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑒 𐑕𐑰𐑟.</p>
    <p>“'𐑲 𐑕𐑰! 𐑲 𐑕𐑰!' 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑧𐑗𐑵𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑒𐑤𐑱𐑥𐑛 ·𐑛𐑪𐑯 ·𐑐𐑧𐑛𐑮𐑴, 𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑗𐑦𐑗𐑩 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑦𐑤𐑝𐑼𐑦 𐑮𐑳𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑟. '𐑯𐑴 𐑯𐑰𐑛 𐑑 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑝𐑩𐑤! 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛'𐑟 𐑢𐑳𐑯 ·𐑤𐑰𐑥𐑩. 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑔𐑷𐑑, 𐑯𐑬, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑘𐑹 𐑑𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑼𐑩𐑑 ·𐑯𐑹𐑔 𐑞 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑒𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑯 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑦 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑤𐑟.—𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑦.'</p>
    <p>“𐑲 𐑤𐑧𐑓𐑑 𐑪𐑓, 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑢𐑺 𐑞 ·𐑤𐑱𐑒𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑖𐑫𐑒 𐑞 𐑚𐑨𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑱. 𐑣𐑸𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑣𐑰 𐑛𐑳𐑯 𐑕𐑴, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑼𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑡𐑵𐑯𐑽 𐑥𐑱𐑑𐑕 𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑹 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽𐑟, 𐑣𐑵 𐑷𐑤 𐑒𐑮𐑬𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑑 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑒. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑤𐑲𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑞 𐑮𐑴𐑐𐑕 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑚𐑱𐑤𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑑𐑕, 𐑞 𐑑𐑵 ·𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑨𐑤𐑼𐑟 𐑮𐑳𐑖𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑳𐑐𐑮𐑹, 𐑯 𐑕𐑷𐑑 𐑑 𐑛𐑮𐑨𐑜 𐑞𐑺 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑦𐑑 𐑑𐑩𐑢𐑹𐑛𐑟 𐑞 𐑓𐑴𐑒𐑕𐑩𐑤. 𐑳𐑞𐑼𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼𐑟 𐑡𐑶𐑯𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑩𐑑𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑑, 𐑯 𐑩 𐑑𐑢𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑑𐑻𐑥𐑶𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑿𐑛; 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑸𐑥'𐑟 𐑢𐑱, 𐑞 𐑝𐑨𐑤𐑾𐑯𐑑 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 𐑛𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑳𐑐 𐑯 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑐𐑲𐑒, 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑪𐑓𐑦𐑕𐑼𐑟 𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑤 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑩𐑑𐑮𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑕 𐑕𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑤, 𐑯 𐑕𐑥𐑴𐑒 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑑 𐑞 𐑒𐑢𐑹𐑑𐑼-𐑛𐑧𐑒. 𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑟, 𐑣𐑰 𐑮𐑨𐑯 𐑒𐑤𐑴𐑕 𐑳𐑐 𐑑 𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑪𐑤𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑹𐑛𐑼 𐑝 𐑞 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑓𐑿𐑠𐑩𐑯, 𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑣𐑸𐑑 𐑝 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑲𐑒, 𐑕𐑷𐑑 𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑒 𐑬𐑑 𐑞 𐑪𐑚𐑡𐑧𐑒𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 ·𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑑 𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑧𐑕𐑐𐑼𐑭𐑛𐑴𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑑𐑵 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑓 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑷𐑤; 𐑞𐑱 𐑕𐑩𐑒𐑕𐑰𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑓𐑴𐑒𐑕𐑩𐑤 𐑛𐑧𐑒, 𐑢𐑺, 𐑣𐑱𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑤𐑵𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑹 𐑓𐑹 𐑤𐑸𐑡 𐑒𐑭𐑕𐑒𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑤𐑲𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑩𐑕, 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑕𐑰-·𐑐𐑼𐑦𐑟𐑾𐑯𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑯𐑗𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑝𐑟 𐑚𐑦𐑣𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑚𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑱𐑛.</p>
    <p>“'𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑞𐑨𐑑, 𐑘𐑰 𐑐𐑲𐑮𐑩𐑑𐑕!' 𐑮𐑹𐑛 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯, 𐑯𐑬 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑩𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑐𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑰𐑗 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛, 𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑮𐑷𐑑 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑿𐑼𐑛. '𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑞𐑨𐑑, 𐑘𐑰 𐑒𐑳𐑑-𐑔𐑮𐑴𐑑𐑕!'</p>
    <p>“𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑑 𐑤𐑰𐑐𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑱𐑛, 𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑐 𐑯 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑞𐑺, 𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑲𐑛 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑞 𐑐𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑛𐑵; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑜𐑱𐑝 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 𐑑 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑑𐑤𐑦, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 (·𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑑'𐑕) 𐑛𐑧𐑔 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑚𐑰 𐑞 𐑕𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑓 𐑩 𐑥𐑻𐑛𐑼𐑩𐑕 𐑥𐑿𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑦 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟. 𐑓𐑽𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑸𐑑 𐑤𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑵𐑝 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑑𐑵 𐑑𐑮𐑵, 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑛𐑦𐑟𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑻𐑡𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑻𐑯 𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑛𐑿𐑑𐑦.</p>
    <p>“'𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑿 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑥𐑦𐑕 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑑 𐑑𐑳𐑗 𐑳𐑕, 𐑦𐑓 𐑢𐑰 𐑛𐑵?' 𐑛𐑦𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑞𐑺 𐑮𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑰𐑛𐑼.</p>
    <p>“'𐑑𐑻𐑯 𐑑! 𐑑𐑻𐑯 𐑑!—𐑲 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑯𐑴 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑥𐑦𐑕;—𐑑 𐑘𐑹 𐑛𐑿𐑑𐑦! 𐑛𐑵 𐑿 𐑢𐑪𐑯𐑑 𐑑 𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐, 𐑚𐑲 𐑯𐑪𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑓 𐑨𐑑 𐑩 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞𐑦𐑕? 𐑑𐑻𐑯 𐑑!' 𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕 𐑥𐑹 𐑮𐑱𐑟𐑛 𐑩 𐑐𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑤.</p>
    <p>“'𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐?' 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑑. '𐑲, 𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑣𐑻 𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑒. 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑩 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑝 𐑳𐑕 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑟 𐑑, 𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑧𐑕 𐑿 𐑕𐑢𐑺 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑑 𐑮𐑱𐑟 𐑩 𐑮𐑴𐑐-𐑘𐑸𐑯 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑳𐑕. 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑱 𐑘𐑰, 𐑥𐑧𐑯?' 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑮𐑱𐑛𐑟. 𐑩 𐑓𐑽𐑕 𐑗𐑽 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞𐑺 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑪𐑯𐑕.</p>
    <p>“𐑞 ·𐑤𐑱𐑒𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑯𐑬 𐑐𐑩𐑑𐑮𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑞 𐑚𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑱𐑛, 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑒𐑰𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑲 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯, 𐑯 𐑡𐑻𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑰𐑟:—'𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑬𐑼 𐑓𐑷𐑤𐑑; 𐑢𐑰 𐑛𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑯𐑑 𐑦𐑑; 𐑲 𐑑𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑑 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑥𐑼 𐑩𐑢𐑱; 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑚𐑶'𐑟 𐑚𐑦𐑟𐑯𐑩𐑕; 𐑣𐑰 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑯𐑴𐑯 𐑥𐑰 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑞𐑦𐑕; 𐑲 𐑑𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑒 𐑞 𐑚𐑳𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑴; 𐑲 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑰𐑝 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑮𐑴𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑩 𐑓𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑼 𐑣𐑽 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑡𐑷; 𐑱𐑯𐑑 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑯𐑲𐑝𐑟 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑴𐑒𐑕𐑩𐑤 𐑞𐑺, 𐑥𐑧𐑯? 𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑑 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑕𐑐𐑲𐑒𐑕, 𐑥𐑲 𐑣𐑸𐑑𐑦𐑟. 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯, 𐑚𐑲 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛, 𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑑 𐑘𐑹𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓; 𐑕𐑱 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑛; 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑩 𐑓𐑵𐑤; 𐑓𐑼𐑜𐑧𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑷𐑤; 𐑢𐑰 𐑸 𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑦 𐑑 𐑑𐑻𐑯 𐑑; 𐑑𐑮𐑰𐑑 𐑳𐑕 𐑛𐑰𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦, 𐑯 𐑢𐑰'𐑼 𐑘𐑹 𐑥𐑧𐑯; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑰 𐑢𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑓𐑤𐑪𐑜𐑛.'</p>
    <p>“'𐑑𐑻𐑯 𐑑! 𐑲 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑯𐑴 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑩𐑟, 𐑑𐑻𐑯 𐑑, 𐑲 𐑕𐑱!'</p>
    <p>“'𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑘𐑰, 𐑯𐑬,' 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 𐑞 ·𐑤𐑱𐑒𐑥𐑩𐑯, 𐑓𐑤𐑦𐑙𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑸𐑥 𐑑𐑩𐑢𐑹𐑛𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑥, '𐑞𐑺 𐑸 𐑩 𐑓𐑿 𐑝 𐑳𐑕 𐑣𐑽 (𐑯 𐑲 𐑨𐑥 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞𐑧𐑥) 𐑣𐑵 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑑 𐑓 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑟, 𐑛'𐑘𐑰 𐑕𐑰; 𐑯𐑬 𐑨𐑟 𐑿 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑯𐑴, 𐑕𐑻, 𐑢𐑰 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑒𐑤𐑱𐑥 𐑬𐑼 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑗𐑸𐑡 𐑨𐑟 𐑕𐑵𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑼 𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑬𐑯; 𐑕𐑴 𐑢𐑰 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑯𐑑 𐑩 𐑮𐑴; 𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑬𐑼 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑩𐑕𐑑; 𐑢𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑯𐑑 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑐𐑰𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤; 𐑢𐑰 𐑸 𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑦 𐑑 𐑢𐑻𐑒, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑰 𐑢𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑓𐑤𐑪𐑜𐑛.'</p>
    <p>“'𐑑𐑻𐑯 𐑑!' 𐑮𐑹𐑛 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯.</p>
    <p>“𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑑 𐑜𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑩 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑, 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑕𐑧𐑛:—'𐑲 𐑑𐑧𐑤 𐑿 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑬, ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯, 𐑮𐑭𐑞𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑒𐑦𐑤 𐑘𐑰, 𐑯 𐑚𐑰 𐑣𐑳𐑙 𐑓 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑖𐑨𐑚𐑦 𐑮𐑭𐑕𐑒𐑩𐑤, 𐑢𐑰 𐑢𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑤𐑦𐑓𐑑 𐑩 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑘𐑰 𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑧𐑕 𐑘𐑰 𐑩𐑑𐑨𐑒 𐑳𐑕; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑿 𐑕𐑱 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑛 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑓𐑤𐑪𐑜𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑕, 𐑢𐑰 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑛𐑵 𐑩 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛'𐑟 𐑑𐑻𐑯.'</p>
    <p>“'𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑓𐑴𐑒𐑕𐑩𐑤 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑘𐑰, 𐑲'𐑤 𐑒𐑰𐑐 𐑘𐑰 𐑞𐑺 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑘𐑰'𐑼 𐑕𐑦𐑒 𐑝 𐑦𐑑. 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑘𐑰 𐑜𐑴.'</p>
    <p>“'𐑖𐑨𐑤 𐑢𐑰?' 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑰𐑛𐑼 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑧𐑯. 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑢𐑻 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑑; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑧𐑙𐑔, 𐑦𐑯 𐑴𐑚𐑰𐑛𐑾𐑯𐑕 𐑑 ·𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑑, 𐑞𐑱 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑰𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞𐑺 𐑛𐑸𐑒 𐑛𐑧𐑯, 𐑜𐑮𐑬𐑤𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑽𐑦𐑙, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑚𐑺𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑩 𐑒𐑱𐑝.</p>
    <p>“𐑨𐑟 𐑞 ·𐑤𐑱𐑒𐑥𐑩𐑯'𐑟 𐑚𐑺 𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑤𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑐𐑤𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑕, 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑪𐑕𐑦 𐑤𐑰𐑐𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑱𐑛, 𐑯 𐑮𐑨𐑐𐑦𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑮𐑷𐑦𐑙 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 𐑕𐑤𐑲𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑒𐑳𐑑𐑩𐑤, 𐑐𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑞𐑺 𐑜𐑮𐑵𐑐 𐑝 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑦𐑑, 𐑯 𐑤𐑬𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛 𐑓 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑿𐑼𐑛 𐑑 𐑚𐑮𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑣𐑧𐑝𐑦 𐑚𐑮𐑭𐑕 𐑐𐑨𐑛𐑤𐑪𐑒 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑪𐑙𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑞 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑨𐑯𐑘𐑩𐑯𐑢𐑱. 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑴𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑕𐑤𐑲𐑛 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤, 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑼𐑛 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑨𐑒, 𐑒𐑤𐑴𐑟𐑛 𐑦𐑑, 𐑯 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑒𐑰 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑥—𐑑𐑧𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑯𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑼—𐑤𐑰𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑯 𐑛𐑧𐑒 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑑𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑦 𐑹 𐑥𐑹, 𐑣𐑵 𐑞𐑳𐑕 𐑓𐑸 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑯𐑿𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑤.</p>
    <p>“𐑷𐑤 𐑯𐑲𐑑 𐑩 𐑢𐑲𐑛-𐑩𐑢𐑱𐑒 𐑢𐑪𐑗 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑒𐑧𐑐𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑪𐑓𐑦𐑕𐑼𐑟, 𐑓𐑹𐑢𐑼𐑛 𐑯 𐑭𐑓𐑑, 𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑞 𐑓𐑴𐑒𐑕𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑒𐑳𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑯 𐑓𐑹 𐑣𐑨𐑗𐑢𐑱; 𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑓𐑽𐑛 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑻𐑡𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑦𐑥𐑻𐑡, 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑞 𐑚𐑳𐑤𐑒𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑴. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑬𐑼𐑟 𐑝 𐑛𐑸𐑒𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑐𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑐𐑰𐑕; 𐑞 𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑣𐑵 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑛𐑿𐑑𐑦 𐑑𐑶𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑸𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑐𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑕, 𐑣𐑵𐑟 𐑒𐑤𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑯 𐑒𐑤𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑞 𐑛𐑮𐑽𐑦 𐑯𐑲𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑟𐑥𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐.</p>
    <p>“𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑯𐑮𐑲𐑟 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑓𐑹𐑢𐑼𐑛, 𐑯 𐑯𐑪𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑒, 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑼𐑟 𐑑 𐑢𐑻𐑒; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑘𐑧𐑤 𐑞𐑱 𐑮𐑦𐑓𐑿𐑟𐑛. 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑤𐑴𐑼𐑛 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑥, 𐑯 𐑩 𐑒𐑳𐑐𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑓𐑫𐑤𐑟 𐑝 𐑚𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑻 𐑑𐑪𐑕𐑑 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑦𐑑; 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑒𐑰 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑯 𐑐𐑪𐑒𐑩𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑑, 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 𐑮𐑩𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑞 𐑒𐑢𐑹𐑑𐑼-𐑛𐑧𐑒. 𐑑𐑢𐑲𐑕 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑛𐑱 𐑓 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑛𐑱𐑟 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑰𐑑𐑩𐑛; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑹𐑔 𐑥𐑹𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑓𐑿𐑟𐑛 𐑮𐑨𐑙𐑜𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙, 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑩 𐑕𐑒𐑳𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑣𐑻𐑛, 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑒𐑳𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑥𐑼𐑦 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑼𐑛; 𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑹 𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑚𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑳𐑐 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑓𐑴𐑒𐑕𐑩𐑤, 𐑕𐑱𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑱 𐑢𐑻 𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑦 𐑑 𐑑𐑻𐑯 𐑑. 𐑞 𐑓𐑧𐑑𐑦𐑛 𐑒𐑤𐑴𐑕𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑺, 𐑯 𐑩 𐑓𐑨𐑥𐑦𐑖𐑦𐑙 𐑛𐑲𐑩𐑑, 𐑿𐑯𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑐𐑼𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑕 𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑓𐑽𐑟 𐑝 𐑳𐑤𐑑𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑑 𐑮𐑧𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑚𐑿𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑑 𐑕𐑼𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑨𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑯. 𐑦𐑥𐑚𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞𐑦𐑕, 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 𐑮𐑰𐑦𐑑𐑼𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑦𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑞 𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 ·𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑑 𐑖𐑬𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑳𐑐 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑩 𐑑𐑼𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒 𐑣𐑦𐑯𐑑 𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑪𐑐 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑨𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑢𐑺 𐑣𐑰 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑪𐑙𐑛. 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑦𐑓𐑔 𐑥𐑹𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑳𐑞𐑼𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑥𐑿𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑽𐑟 𐑚𐑴𐑤𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑳𐑐 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑺 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑕𐑐𐑼𐑩𐑑 𐑸𐑥𐑟 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑷𐑑 𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑥. 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑢𐑻 𐑤𐑧𐑓𐑑.</p>
    <p>“'𐑚𐑧𐑑𐑼 𐑑𐑻𐑯 𐑑, 𐑯𐑬?' 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑣𐑸𐑑𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑡𐑽.</p>
    <p>“'𐑖𐑳𐑑 𐑳𐑕 𐑳𐑐 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯, 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑘𐑰!' 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑑.</p>
    <p>“'𐑴 𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦,' 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑰 𐑒𐑤𐑦𐑒𐑑.</p>
    <p>“𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑, 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑮𐑱𐑡𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑧𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑕𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑼 𐑩𐑕𐑴𐑖𐑾𐑑𐑕, 𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑙 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑥𐑪𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑝𐑶𐑕 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑱𐑤𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑯 𐑥𐑨𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵𐑥𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕 𐑨𐑟 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑚𐑬𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑝 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑺; 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 ·𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑐𐑴𐑟𐑛 𐑑 𐑞 𐑑𐑵 ·𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑨𐑤𐑼𐑟, 𐑞𐑳𐑕 𐑓𐑸 𐑩𐑐𐑨𐑮𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑝 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑑 𐑚𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑞𐑺 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑯𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑞 𐑜𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑩𐑯; 𐑯 𐑸𐑥𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑺 𐑒𐑰𐑯 𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑯𐑲𐑝𐑟 (𐑤𐑪𐑙, 𐑒𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑒, 𐑣𐑧𐑝𐑦 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑦𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑤 𐑨𐑑 𐑰𐑗 𐑧𐑯𐑛) 𐑮𐑳𐑯 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑒 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑑 𐑑 𐑞 𐑑𐑨𐑓𐑮𐑱𐑤; 𐑯 𐑦𐑓 𐑚𐑲 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑛𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑖𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑛𐑧𐑕𐑐𐑼𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑐𐑪𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤, 𐑕𐑰𐑟 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐. 𐑓 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓, 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑛𐑵 𐑞𐑦𐑕, 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑧𐑛, 𐑢𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑞𐑱 𐑡𐑶𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑹 𐑯𐑪𐑑. 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑯𐑲𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑛𐑧𐑯. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑒𐑰𐑥 𐑥𐑧𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑯𐑴 𐑪𐑐𐑩𐑟𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑑𐑵; 𐑞𐑱 𐑕𐑢𐑹 𐑞𐑱 𐑢𐑻 𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑦 𐑓 𐑞𐑨𐑑, 𐑹 𐑓 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑥𐑨𐑛 𐑔𐑦𐑙, 𐑓 𐑧𐑯𐑦𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑖𐑹𐑑 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 𐑕𐑼𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑼. 𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑥𐑹, 𐑞𐑱 𐑰𐑗 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑪𐑯 𐑛𐑧𐑒, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑑 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑞 𐑮𐑳𐑖 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑒𐑳𐑥. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑞𐑺 𐑤𐑰𐑛𐑼 𐑨𐑟 𐑓𐑽𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑚𐑡𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑻𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑓 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓; 𐑐𐑼𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑼𐑤𐑦 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑵 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑮𐑱𐑛𐑟 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑘𐑰𐑤𐑛, 𐑞 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑑 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼, 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑼; 𐑯 𐑚𐑴𐑔 𐑝 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑, 𐑓 𐑞 𐑤𐑨𐑛𐑼 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩𐑛𐑥𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑩 𐑑𐑲𐑥. 𐑯 𐑣𐑽, 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑞 𐑓𐑬𐑤 𐑐𐑤𐑱 𐑝 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑾𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑬𐑑.</p>
    <p>“𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑽𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑓𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑡𐑧𐑒𐑑 𐑝 𐑞𐑺 𐑤𐑰𐑛𐑼, 𐑰𐑗 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯 𐑕𐑧𐑐𐑼𐑩𐑑 𐑕𐑴𐑤 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑕𐑳𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑕𐑰𐑥, 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑐𐑰𐑕 𐑝 𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑗𐑼𐑦, 𐑯𐑱𐑥𐑤𐑦: 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑑, 𐑦𐑯 𐑹𐑛𐑼 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑔𐑮𐑰, 𐑞𐑴 𐑞 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑑𐑧𐑯, 𐑑 𐑕𐑼𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑼; 𐑯 𐑞𐑺𐑚𐑲 𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼 𐑢𐑪𐑑𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤 𐑗𐑭𐑯𐑕 𐑝 𐑐𐑸𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑛𐑳𐑒𐑑 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑥𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑑. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑧𐑯 ·𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑑 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑯𐑴𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑦𐑑𐑻𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑑 𐑤𐑰𐑛 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑑 𐑞 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑, 𐑞𐑱 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑢𐑱, 𐑚𐑲 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑕𐑳𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑧𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑦 𐑝 𐑝𐑦𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑦, 𐑥𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑕𐑰𐑒𐑮𐑩𐑑 𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑗𐑼𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑩𐑜𐑧𐑞𐑼; 𐑯 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑤𐑰𐑛𐑼 𐑓𐑧𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑩 𐑛𐑴𐑟, 𐑝𐑻𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑴𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑞𐑺 𐑕𐑴𐑤𐑟 𐑑 𐑰𐑗 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟; 𐑯 𐑚𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐𐑼 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑒𐑹𐑛𐑟, 𐑯 𐑜𐑨𐑜𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑒𐑹𐑛𐑟; 𐑯 𐑖𐑮𐑰𐑒𐑑 𐑬𐑑 𐑓 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑯𐑲𐑑.</p>
    <p>“𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑻𐑛𐑼 𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛, 𐑯 𐑕𐑥𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑛𐑸𐑒 𐑓 𐑞 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑛, 𐑣𐑰 𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑸𐑥𐑛 𐑥𐑱𐑑𐑕 𐑯 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽𐑟 𐑮𐑳𐑖𐑑 𐑓 𐑞 𐑓𐑴𐑒𐑕𐑩𐑤. 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑓𐑿 𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑞 𐑕𐑒𐑳𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑴𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑛, 𐑯, 𐑚𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑯 𐑓𐑫𐑑, 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑜𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑮𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑰𐑛𐑼 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑖𐑳𐑝𐑛 𐑳𐑐 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑺 𐑚𐑲 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑼𐑓𐑦𐑛𐑾𐑕 𐑨𐑤𐑲𐑟, 𐑣𐑵 𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕 𐑒𐑤𐑱𐑥𐑛 𐑞 𐑪𐑯𐑼 𐑝 𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑣𐑵 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑓𐑫𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑲𐑐 𐑓 𐑥𐑻𐑛𐑼. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑒𐑪𐑤𐑼𐑛, 𐑯 𐑛𐑮𐑨𐑜𐑛 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑒 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑛𐑧𐑛 𐑒𐑨𐑑𐑩𐑤; 𐑯, 𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑕𐑲𐑛, 𐑢𐑻 𐑕𐑰𐑟𐑛 𐑳𐑐 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑥𐑦𐑟𐑩𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑦𐑙, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑒𐑢𐑹𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑝 𐑥𐑰𐑑, 𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑞𐑱 𐑣𐑳𐑙 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑥𐑹𐑯𐑦𐑙. '𐑛𐑨𐑥 𐑘𐑰,' 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯, 𐑐𐑱𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑴 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑞𐑧𐑥, '𐑞 𐑝𐑳𐑤𐑗𐑼𐑟 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑑𐑳𐑗 𐑘𐑰, 𐑘𐑰 𐑝𐑦𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑟!'</p>
    <p>“𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑯𐑮𐑲𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟; 𐑯 𐑕𐑧𐑐𐑼𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑣𐑵 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑮𐑦𐑚𐑧𐑤𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑣𐑵 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑯𐑴 𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑿𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑦, 𐑣𐑰 𐑑𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑞 𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑩 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑓𐑤𐑪𐑜 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑷𐑤 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛—𐑔𐑷𐑑, 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑤, 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑛𐑵 𐑕𐑴—𐑣𐑰 𐑷𐑑 𐑑—𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑕 𐑛𐑦𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑑; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑓 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑, 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑺 𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑼𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑼, 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑜𐑴 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑮𐑧𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑛, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑣𐑰 𐑩𐑒𐑹𐑛𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑛𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑝𐑼𐑯𐑨𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑼.</p>
    <p>“'𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑓 𐑿, 𐑘𐑰 𐑒𐑨𐑮𐑾𐑯 𐑮𐑴𐑜𐑟,' 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑞 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑦𐑙—'𐑓 𐑿, 𐑲 𐑥𐑰𐑯 𐑑 𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑕 𐑘𐑰 𐑳𐑐 𐑓 𐑞 𐑑𐑮𐑲-𐑐𐑪𐑑𐑕;' 𐑯, 𐑕𐑰𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑮𐑴𐑐, 𐑣𐑰 𐑩𐑐𐑤𐑲𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑨𐑒𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑑𐑵 𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑼𐑟, 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑞𐑱 𐑘𐑧𐑤𐑛 𐑯𐑴 𐑥𐑹, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑓𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑳𐑙 𐑞𐑺 𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑟 𐑕𐑲𐑛𐑢𐑱𐑟, 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑑𐑵 𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑕𐑦𐑓𐑲𐑛 𐑔𐑰𐑝𐑟 𐑸 𐑛𐑮𐑷𐑯.</p>
    <p>“'𐑥𐑲 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑘𐑰!' 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛, 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑; '𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑮𐑴𐑐 𐑦𐑯𐑳𐑓 𐑤𐑧𐑓𐑑 𐑓 𐑿, 𐑥𐑲 𐑓𐑲𐑯 𐑚𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑥, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑫𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑜𐑦𐑝 𐑳𐑐. 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑜𐑨𐑜 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑬𐑔, 𐑯 𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑳𐑕 𐑣𐑽 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑕𐑱 𐑓 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓.'</p>
    <p>“𐑓 𐑩 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑞 𐑦𐑜𐑟𐑷𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑥𐑿𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑽 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑩 𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑥𐑿𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑥𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑮𐑨𐑥𐑐𐑑 𐑡𐑷𐑟, 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑐𐑱𐑯𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑑𐑢𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑧𐑛, 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑕, '𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑲 𐑕𐑱 𐑦𐑟 𐑞𐑦𐑕—𐑯 𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑧𐑤—𐑦𐑓 𐑿 𐑓𐑤𐑪𐑜 𐑥𐑰, 𐑲 𐑥𐑻𐑛𐑼 𐑿!'</p>
    <p>“'𐑕𐑱 𐑘𐑰 𐑕𐑴? 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑕𐑰 𐑣𐑬 𐑘𐑰 𐑓𐑮𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑥𐑰'—𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 𐑛𐑮𐑵 𐑪𐑓 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑮𐑴𐑐 𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑒.</p>
    <p>“'𐑚𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑑,' 𐑣𐑦𐑕𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑤𐑱𐑒𐑥𐑩𐑯.</p>
    <p>“'𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑲 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑,'—𐑯 𐑞 𐑮𐑴𐑐 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕 𐑥𐑹 𐑛𐑮𐑷𐑯 𐑚𐑨𐑒 𐑓 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑴𐑒.</p>
    <p>“𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑑 𐑣𐑽 𐑣𐑦𐑕𐑑 𐑬𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑔𐑦𐑙, 𐑦𐑯𐑷𐑛𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯; 𐑣𐑵, 𐑑 𐑞 𐑩𐑥𐑱𐑟𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟, 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑨𐑒, 𐑐𐑱𐑕𐑑 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑒 𐑮𐑨𐑐𐑦𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑑𐑵 𐑹 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟, 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑔𐑮𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑮𐑴𐑐, 𐑕𐑧𐑛, '𐑲 𐑢𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑛𐑵 𐑦𐑑—𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑜𐑴—𐑒𐑳𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑛𐑬𐑯: 𐑛'𐑘𐑰 𐑣𐑽?'</p>
    <p>“𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑡𐑵𐑯𐑽 𐑥𐑱𐑑𐑕 𐑢𐑻 𐑣𐑳𐑮𐑦𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑑 𐑞 𐑹𐑛𐑼, 𐑩 𐑐𐑱𐑤 𐑥𐑨𐑯, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑚𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑡𐑛 𐑣𐑧𐑛, 𐑼𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑞𐑧𐑥—·𐑮𐑨𐑛𐑯𐑦 𐑞 𐑗𐑰𐑓 𐑥𐑱𐑑. 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑕 𐑞 𐑚𐑤𐑴, 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑤𐑱𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑻𐑔; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑹𐑯𐑦𐑙, 𐑣𐑽𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑑𐑿𐑥𐑳𐑤𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑒, 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑒𐑮𐑧𐑐𐑑 𐑬𐑑, 𐑯 𐑞𐑳𐑕 𐑓𐑸 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑢𐑪𐑗𐑑 𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑕𐑰𐑯. 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑬𐑔, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑣𐑸𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑒; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑥𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 <i>𐑣𐑦𐑟</i> 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑯 𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑑 𐑛𐑵 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 𐑛𐑺𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑩𐑑𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑑, 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑯𐑨𐑗𐑑 𐑞 𐑮𐑴𐑐 𐑯 𐑩𐑛𐑝𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑦𐑯𐑘𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑓𐑴.</p>
    <p>“'𐑿 𐑸 𐑩 𐑒𐑬𐑼𐑛!' 𐑣𐑦𐑕𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑤𐑱𐑒𐑥𐑩𐑯.</p>
    <p>“'𐑕𐑴 𐑲 𐑨𐑥, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑞𐑨𐑑.' 𐑞 𐑥𐑱𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑨𐑒𐑑 𐑝 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑒𐑦𐑙, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑩𐑯𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑣𐑦𐑕 𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑳𐑐𐑤𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑸𐑥. 𐑣𐑰 𐑐𐑷𐑟𐑛: 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑐𐑷𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑯𐑴 𐑥𐑹, 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑻𐑛, 𐑕𐑐𐑲𐑑 𐑝 ·𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑑'𐑕 𐑔𐑮𐑧𐑑, 𐑢𐑪𐑑𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯. 𐑞 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑢𐑻 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑒𐑳𐑑 𐑛𐑬𐑯, 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑛 𐑑, 𐑯, 𐑕𐑳𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑻𐑒𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑥𐑵𐑛𐑦 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑞 𐑲𐑼𐑯 𐑐𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑕 𐑒𐑤𐑨𐑙𐑛 𐑨𐑟 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹.</p>
    <p>“𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑛𐑸𐑒 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑛𐑱, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑗 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑲𐑼𐑛 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑴, 𐑩 𐑒𐑤𐑨𐑥𐑼 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑣𐑻𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑴𐑒𐑕𐑩𐑤; 𐑯 𐑞 𐑑𐑵 𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑮𐑳𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑐, 𐑚𐑦𐑕𐑰𐑡𐑛 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑚𐑦𐑯 𐑛𐑹, 𐑕𐑱𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑱 ·𐑛𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑵. 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑰𐑑𐑦𐑟, 𐑒𐑳𐑓𐑕, 𐑯 𐑒𐑦𐑒𐑕 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑛𐑮𐑲𐑝 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑚𐑨𐑒, 𐑕𐑴 𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑴𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑞𐑱 𐑢𐑻 𐑐𐑫𐑑 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐'𐑕 𐑮𐑳𐑯 𐑓 𐑕𐑨𐑤𐑝𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯. 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤, 𐑯𐑴 𐑕𐑲𐑯 𐑝 𐑥𐑿𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑦 𐑮𐑰𐑩𐑐𐑽𐑛 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑞 𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑. 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑺𐑦, 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑨𐑑 ·𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑑'𐑕 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑜𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑞𐑱 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑪𐑤𐑝𐑛 𐑑 𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑑𐑱𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑐𐑰𐑕𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑯𐑩𐑕, 𐑴𐑚𐑱 𐑷𐑤 𐑹𐑛𐑼𐑟 𐑑 𐑞 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑, 𐑯, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑮𐑰𐑗𐑑 𐑐𐑹𐑑, 𐑛𐑦𐑟𐑻𐑑 𐑣𐑻 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑹𐑛𐑼 𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑖𐑫𐑼 𐑞 𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑛𐑾𐑕𐑑 𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑞 𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡, 𐑞𐑱 𐑷𐑤 𐑩𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑛 𐑑 𐑩𐑯𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑔𐑦𐑙—𐑯𐑱𐑥𐑤𐑦, 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑑 𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑑 𐑓 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟, 𐑦𐑯 𐑒𐑱𐑕 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑚𐑰 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑳𐑝𐑼𐑛. 𐑓, 𐑕𐑐𐑲𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑻 𐑤𐑰𐑒, 𐑯 𐑕𐑐𐑲𐑑 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑻 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑐𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑟, 𐑞 ·𐑑𐑬𐑯-·𐑣𐑴 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑑𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑻 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑-𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑟, 𐑯 𐑣𐑻 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑤𐑴𐑼 𐑓 𐑩 𐑓𐑦𐑖 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑, 𐑨𐑟 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑛𐑱 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑮𐑭𐑓𐑑 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑒 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑜𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛; 𐑯 ·𐑮𐑨𐑛𐑯𐑦 𐑞 𐑥𐑱𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑦 𐑑 𐑗𐑱𐑯𐑡 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑻𐑔 𐑓 𐑩 𐑚𐑴𐑑, 𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑡𐑛 𐑥𐑬𐑔 𐑕𐑰𐑒 𐑑 𐑜𐑨𐑜 𐑦𐑯 𐑛𐑧𐑔 𐑞 𐑝𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑡𐑷 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤.</p>
    <p>“𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑴 𐑞 ·𐑤𐑱𐑒𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑿𐑕𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑑 𐑩𐑛𐑪𐑐𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑐𐑨𐑕𐑦𐑝𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑛𐑳𐑒𐑑, 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑧𐑐𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯 𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑤 (𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑰𐑕𐑑 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑷𐑤 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑴𐑝𐑼) 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑐𐑼 𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑝𐑩𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑡 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑣𐑵 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑸𐑑. 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑮𐑨𐑛𐑯𐑦 𐑞 𐑗𐑰𐑓 𐑥𐑱𐑑'𐑕 𐑢𐑪𐑗; 𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑓 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑨𐑗𐑵𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑕𐑷𐑑 𐑑 𐑮𐑳𐑯 𐑥𐑹 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑣𐑭𐑓 𐑢𐑱 𐑑 𐑥𐑰𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑵𐑥, 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑞 𐑕𐑰𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑦𐑙, 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑞 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑕 𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯, 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑿𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑪𐑗 𐑨𐑑 𐑯𐑲𐑑. 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕, 𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑹 𐑑𐑵 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟, ·𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑑 𐑕𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑑 𐑞 𐑐𐑤𐑨𐑯 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑡.</p>
    <p>“𐑛𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑯𐑲𐑑, ·𐑮𐑨𐑛𐑯𐑦 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑩𐑯 𐑳𐑯𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑢𐑱 𐑝 𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑫𐑤𐑢𐑼𐑒𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑒𐑢𐑹𐑑𐑼-𐑛𐑧𐑒, 𐑯 𐑤𐑰𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑸𐑥 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑜𐑳𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑣𐑶𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑳𐑐 𐑞𐑺, 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑩𐑚𐑳𐑝 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐'𐑕 𐑕𐑲𐑛. 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛, 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑯𐑴𐑯, 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑛𐑴𐑟𐑛. 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑝𐑱𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑢𐑰𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑯 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐, 𐑯 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑢𐑰𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑕𐑰. 𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑑 𐑒𐑨𐑤𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑲𐑥, 𐑯 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑 𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑒 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑥 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑑𐑵 𐑴'𐑒𐑤𐑪𐑒, 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑹𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑞 𐑔𐑻𐑛 𐑛𐑱 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑛. 𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑧𐑠𐑼, 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑶𐑛 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑝𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑒𐑺𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑪𐑗𐑩𐑟 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑴.</p>
    <p>“'𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑸 𐑿 𐑥𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑺?' 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑩 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑥𐑱𐑑.</p>
    <p>“'𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑛𐑵 𐑿 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒? 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑛𐑳𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑤𐑲𐑒?'</p>
    <p>“'𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑘𐑼𐑛 𐑓 𐑘𐑹 𐑚𐑨𐑜; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑩𐑯 𐑪𐑛 𐑢𐑳𐑯, 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑟 𐑑 𐑥𐑰.'</p>
    <p>“'𐑘𐑧𐑕, 𐑮𐑭𐑞𐑼 𐑪𐑛𐑦𐑖,' 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑞 ·𐑤𐑱𐑒𐑥𐑩𐑯, 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑸𐑥'𐑟 𐑤𐑧𐑙𐑔 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑣𐑦𐑥; '𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑲 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑼. 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑥𐑱𐑑, 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑝𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑳𐑓 𐑑𐑢𐑲𐑯,—𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑿 𐑧𐑯𐑦?'</p>
    <p>“𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑳𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑴𐑒𐑕𐑩𐑤.</p>
    <p>“'𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑲 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑜𐑧𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑮𐑨𐑛;' 𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑮𐑴𐑟 𐑑 𐑜𐑴 𐑭𐑓𐑑.</p>
    <p>“'𐑿 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑥𐑰𐑯 𐑑 𐑜𐑴 𐑩 𐑚𐑧𐑜𐑦𐑙 𐑑 <i>𐑣𐑦𐑥!</i>' 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑩 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼.</p>
    <p>“'𐑢𐑲 𐑯𐑪𐑑? 𐑛𐑵 𐑿 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑛𐑵 𐑥𐑰 𐑩 𐑑𐑻𐑯, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑑 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑐 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑧𐑯𐑛, 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑥𐑱𐑑?' 𐑯 𐑜𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑞 𐑥𐑱𐑑, 𐑣𐑰 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑩𐑑𐑤𐑦, 𐑯 𐑭𐑕𐑒𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑓 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑑𐑢𐑲𐑯 𐑑 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑥𐑩𐑒. 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑜𐑦𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥—𐑯𐑲𐑞𐑼 𐑑𐑢𐑲𐑯 𐑯𐑹 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑘𐑼𐑛 𐑢𐑻 𐑕𐑰𐑯 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑯𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑 𐑯𐑲𐑑 𐑩𐑯 𐑲𐑼𐑯 𐑚𐑷𐑤, 𐑒𐑤𐑴𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑯𐑧𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑐𐑸𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑐𐑪𐑒𐑩𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑤𐑱𐑒𐑥𐑩𐑯'𐑟 𐑥𐑳𐑙𐑒𐑦 𐑡𐑨𐑒𐑩𐑑, 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑒𐑴𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑥𐑩𐑒 𐑓 𐑩 𐑐𐑦𐑤𐑴. 𐑑𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑦-𐑓𐑹 𐑬𐑼𐑟 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼, 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑒 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑥—𐑯𐑲 𐑑 𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑣𐑵 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑨𐑐𐑑 𐑑 𐑛𐑴𐑟 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑝 𐑷𐑤𐑢𐑱𐑟 𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑦 𐑛𐑳𐑜 𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑩𐑯'𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛—𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑓𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑬𐑼 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑑 𐑒𐑳𐑥; 𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑹-𐑹𐑛𐑱𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑴𐑤 𐑝 ·𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑑, 𐑞 𐑥𐑱𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑷𐑤𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑦 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑒 𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑗𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑒𐑹𐑐𐑕, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑛 𐑒𐑮𐑳𐑖𐑑 𐑦𐑯.</p>
    <p>“𐑚𐑳𐑑, 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑩 𐑓𐑵𐑤 𐑕𐑱𐑝𐑛 𐑞 𐑢𐑫𐑛-𐑚𐑰 𐑥𐑻𐑛𐑼𐑼 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑛𐑦 𐑛𐑰𐑛 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑐𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛. 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑰𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑡 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛, 𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑩𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑡𐑼. 𐑓 𐑚𐑲 𐑩 𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑽𐑾𐑕 𐑓𐑩𐑑𐑨𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑦, ·𐑣𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑑𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑐 𐑦𐑯 𐑑 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑴𐑯 𐑞 𐑛𐑨𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑛𐑳𐑯.</p>
    <p>“𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑢𐑰𐑯 𐑛𐑱𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑒 𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑯𐑮𐑲𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑥𐑹𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑧𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑛𐑱, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞𐑱 𐑢𐑻 𐑢𐑪𐑖𐑦𐑙 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑒𐑕, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑵𐑐𐑦𐑛 ·𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑻𐑤𐑰𐑓 𐑥𐑨𐑯, 𐑛𐑮𐑷𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑱𐑯-𐑗𐑱𐑯𐑟, 𐑷𐑤 𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕 𐑖𐑬𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑬𐑑, '𐑞𐑺 𐑖𐑰 𐑮𐑴𐑤𐑟! 𐑞𐑺 𐑖𐑰 𐑮𐑴𐑤𐑟!' ·𐑠𐑧𐑟𐑵, 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤! 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 ·𐑥𐑪𐑚𐑦 ·𐑛𐑦𐑒.</p>
    <p>“'𐑥𐑪𐑚𐑦 ·𐑛𐑦𐑒!' 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 ·𐑛𐑪𐑯 ·𐑕𐑦𐑚𐑨𐑕𐑗𐑩𐑯; '·𐑕𐑑 ·𐑛𐑪𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑒! 𐑕𐑻 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑛𐑵 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑙𐑟? 𐑣𐑵𐑥 𐑒𐑷𐑤 𐑿 ·𐑥𐑪𐑚𐑦 ·𐑛𐑦𐑒?'</p>
    <p>“'𐑩 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑢𐑲𐑑, 𐑯 𐑓𐑱𐑥𐑩𐑕, 𐑯 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑛𐑧𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑥𐑹𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑼, ·𐑛𐑪𐑯;—𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑚𐑰 𐑑𐑵 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑦.'</p>
    <p>“'𐑣𐑬? 𐑣𐑬?' 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑘𐑳𐑙 ·𐑕𐑐𐑨𐑯𐑘𐑼𐑛𐑟, 𐑒𐑮𐑬𐑛𐑦𐑙.</p>
    <p>“'𐑯𐑱, ·𐑛𐑪𐑯𐑟, ·𐑛𐑪𐑯𐑟—𐑯𐑱, 𐑯𐑱! 𐑲 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑣𐑻𐑕 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑯𐑬. 𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑥𐑰 𐑜𐑧𐑑 𐑥𐑹 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑺, ·𐑕𐑻𐑟.'</p>
    <p>“'𐑞 𐑗𐑦𐑗𐑩! 𐑞 𐑗𐑦𐑗𐑩!' 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 ·𐑛𐑪𐑯 ·𐑐𐑧𐑛𐑮𐑴; '𐑬𐑼 𐑝𐑦𐑜𐑼𐑩𐑕 𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑕 𐑓𐑱𐑯𐑑;—𐑓𐑦𐑤 𐑳𐑐 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑑𐑦 𐑜𐑤𐑭𐑕!'</p>
    <p>“𐑯𐑴 𐑯𐑰𐑛, 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯; 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑, 𐑯 𐑲 𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑕𐑰𐑛.—𐑯𐑬, 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑕𐑴 𐑕𐑳𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑰𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑕𐑯𐑴𐑦 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑦𐑯 𐑓𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑦 𐑘𐑸𐑛𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐—𐑓𐑼𐑜𐑧𐑑𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑞 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑐𐑨𐑒𐑑 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑵—𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑲𐑑𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑, 𐑞 ·𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑻𐑤𐑰𐑓 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑑𐑦𐑝𐑤𐑦 𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑺𐑦𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑝𐑶𐑕 𐑓 𐑞 𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑼, 𐑞𐑴 𐑓 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑐𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑦𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑕𐑳𐑤𐑩𐑯 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑-𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑟. 𐑷𐑤 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑬 𐑩 𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑯𐑟𐑦. '𐑞 ·𐑢𐑲𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤—𐑞 ·𐑢𐑲𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤!' 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑲 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯, 𐑥𐑱𐑑𐑕, 𐑯 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽𐑟, 𐑣𐑵, 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑑𐑻𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑓𐑽𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑮𐑵𐑥𐑼𐑟, 𐑢𐑻 𐑷𐑤 𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑕 𐑑 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑗𐑼 𐑕𐑴 𐑓𐑱𐑥𐑩𐑕 𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑕 𐑩 𐑓𐑦𐑖; 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑞 𐑛𐑪𐑜𐑩𐑛 𐑒𐑮𐑵 𐑲𐑛 𐑩𐑕𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑕, 𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑒𐑻𐑕𐑩𐑟, 𐑞 𐑩𐑐𐑷𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑿𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑞 𐑝𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑦𐑤𐑒𐑦 𐑥𐑨𐑕, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑦𐑑 𐑳𐑐 𐑚𐑲 𐑩 𐑣𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑐𐑨𐑙𐑜𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑳𐑯, 𐑖𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑯 𐑜𐑤𐑦𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑴𐑐𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑤𐑵 𐑥𐑹𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑰. 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡 𐑓𐑩𐑑𐑨𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑐𐑼𐑝𐑱𐑛𐑟 𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑒𐑼𐑽 𐑝 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑦𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑕, 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑓 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑦 𐑥𐑨𐑐𐑑 𐑬𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛 𐑦𐑑𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑗𐑸𐑑𐑩𐑛. 𐑞 𐑥𐑿𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑽 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑚𐑬𐑟𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑥𐑱𐑑, 𐑯 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑑 𐑩 𐑓𐑦𐑖, 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑿𐑑𐑦 𐑑 𐑕𐑦𐑑 𐑯𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑢𐑲𐑤 ·𐑮𐑨𐑛𐑯𐑦 𐑕𐑑𐑫𐑛 𐑳𐑐 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑬, 𐑯 𐑣𐑷𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑹 𐑕𐑤𐑨𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑞 𐑤𐑲𐑯, 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑛 𐑝 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑛. 𐑥𐑹𐑴𐑝𐑼, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑹 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕 𐑢𐑻 𐑤𐑴𐑼𐑛, 𐑞 𐑥𐑱𐑑'𐑕 𐑜𐑪𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑑; 𐑯 𐑯𐑳𐑯 𐑣𐑬𐑤𐑛 𐑥𐑹 𐑓𐑽𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑲𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑑, 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑹. 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑓 𐑐𐑫𐑤, 𐑞𐑺 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽 𐑜𐑪𐑑 𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑑, 𐑯, 𐑕𐑐𐑽 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛, ·𐑮𐑨𐑛𐑯𐑦 𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑨𐑙 𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑬. 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑷𐑤𐑢𐑱𐑟 𐑩 𐑓𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑾𐑕 𐑥𐑨𐑯, 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑟, 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑚𐑴𐑑. 𐑯 𐑯𐑬 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑡𐑛 𐑒𐑮𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑟, 𐑑 𐑚𐑰𐑗 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤'𐑟 𐑑𐑪𐑐𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑨𐑒. 𐑯𐑳𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑴𐑞, 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑬𐑟𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑷𐑤𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑳𐑐 𐑯 𐑳𐑐, 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑩 𐑚𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑴𐑥 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑚𐑤𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑑𐑵 𐑢𐑲𐑑𐑯𐑩𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑑𐑩𐑜𐑧𐑞𐑼; 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑝 𐑩 𐑕𐑳𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑒 𐑨𐑟 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑩 𐑕𐑳𐑙𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑤𐑧𐑡, 𐑯 𐑒𐑰𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑴𐑝𐑼, 𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑤𐑛 𐑬𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑱𐑑. 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑, 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑓𐑧𐑤 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤'𐑟 𐑕𐑤𐑦𐑐𐑼𐑦 𐑚𐑨𐑒, 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑮𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑛𐑨𐑖𐑑 𐑩𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑕𐑢𐑧𐑤, 𐑢𐑲𐑤 ·𐑮𐑨𐑛𐑯𐑦 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑑𐑪𐑕𐑑 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑕𐑰, 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑓𐑤𐑨𐑙𐑒 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤. 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑒 𐑬𐑑 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑞 𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑱, 𐑯, 𐑓 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑛𐑦𐑥𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑰𐑯 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑝𐑱𐑤, 𐑢𐑲𐑤𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑰𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑵𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑲 𐑝 ·𐑥𐑪𐑚𐑦 ·𐑛𐑦𐑒. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑮𐑳𐑖𐑑 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑕𐑳𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑥𐑱𐑤𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑥; 𐑕𐑰𐑟𐑛 𐑞 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑥𐑼 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑢𐑰𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑡𐑷𐑟; 𐑯 𐑮𐑽𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑲 𐑳𐑐 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑐𐑤𐑳𐑯𐑡𐑛 𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯, 𐑯 𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑛𐑬𐑯.</p>
    <p>“𐑥𐑰𐑯𐑑𐑲𐑥, 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑑𐑨𐑐 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑'𐑕 𐑚𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑥, 𐑞 ·𐑤𐑱𐑒𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑕𐑤𐑨𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑤𐑲𐑯, 𐑕𐑴 𐑨𐑟 𐑑 𐑛𐑮𐑪𐑐 𐑩𐑕𐑑𐑻𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑐𐑵𐑤; 𐑒𐑭𐑥𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑯, 𐑣𐑰 𐑔𐑷𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯 𐑔𐑷𐑑𐑕. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 𐑕𐑳𐑛𐑩𐑯, 𐑑𐑼𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒, 𐑛𐑬𐑯𐑢𐑼𐑛 𐑡𐑻𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑, 𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑮𐑷𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑲𐑓 𐑑 𐑞 𐑤𐑲𐑯. 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑑; 𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑓𐑮𐑰. 𐑚𐑳𐑑, 𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕, ·𐑥𐑪𐑚𐑦 ·𐑛𐑦𐑒 𐑮𐑴𐑟 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑑𐑨𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑝 ·𐑮𐑨𐑛𐑯𐑦'𐑟 𐑮𐑧𐑛 𐑢𐑫𐑤𐑩𐑯 𐑖𐑻𐑑, 𐑒𐑷𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑑𐑰𐑔 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑶𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥. 𐑷𐑤 𐑓𐑹 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕 𐑜𐑱𐑝 𐑗𐑱𐑕 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑦𐑤𐑵𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑞𐑧𐑥, 𐑯 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑽𐑛.</p>
    <p>“𐑦𐑯 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑑𐑲𐑥, 𐑞 ·𐑑𐑬𐑯-·𐑣𐑴 𐑮𐑰𐑗𐑑 𐑣𐑻 𐑐𐑹𐑑—𐑩 𐑕𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑡, 𐑕𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕—𐑢𐑺 𐑯𐑴 𐑕𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑤𐑲𐑟𐑛 𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑗𐑼 𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑲𐑛𐑩𐑛. 𐑞𐑺, 𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 ·𐑤𐑱𐑒𐑥𐑩𐑯, 𐑷𐑤 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑓𐑲𐑝 𐑹 𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑚𐑼𐑩𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑟𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑞 𐑐𐑭𐑥𐑟; 𐑦𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑗𐑵𐑩𐑤𐑦, 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑛 𐑬𐑑, 𐑕𐑰𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑤𐑸𐑡 𐑛𐑳𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑹-𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑵 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑟, 𐑯 𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑱𐑤 𐑓 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑣𐑸𐑚𐑼.</p>
    <p>“𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐'𐑕 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑦 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑮𐑦𐑛𐑿𐑕𐑑 𐑑 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑓𐑫𐑤, 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑲𐑕𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑟 𐑑 𐑩𐑕𐑦𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑤𐑩𐑚𐑹𐑾𐑕 𐑚𐑦𐑟𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑣𐑰𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑪𐑐 𐑞 𐑤𐑰𐑒. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑳𐑯𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑝𐑦𐑡𐑦𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞𐑺 𐑛𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑼𐑩𐑕 𐑨𐑤𐑲𐑟 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤 𐑚𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑝 𐑢𐑲𐑑𐑕 𐑯𐑦𐑕𐑧𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑚𐑴𐑔 𐑚𐑲 𐑯𐑲𐑑 𐑯 𐑚𐑲 𐑛𐑱, 𐑯 𐑕𐑴 𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑰𐑥 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑣𐑸𐑛 𐑢𐑻𐑒 𐑞𐑱 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑑, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑝𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑤 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑦 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯 𐑓 𐑕𐑰, 𐑞𐑱 𐑢𐑻 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑢𐑰𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑛𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑐𐑫𐑑 𐑪𐑓 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑴 𐑣𐑧𐑝𐑦 𐑩 𐑝𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑤. 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑪𐑓𐑦𐑕𐑼𐑟, 𐑣𐑰 𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑼𐑛 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑨𐑟 𐑓𐑸 𐑪𐑓 𐑖𐑹 𐑨𐑟 𐑐𐑪𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤; 𐑤𐑴𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑯 𐑮𐑨𐑯 𐑬𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑵 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑩𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑚𐑬𐑟; 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑒𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑒𐑩𐑑𐑕 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑵𐑐; 𐑯 𐑢𐑹𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑞 ·𐑲𐑕𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑑 𐑩𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑗 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑐𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑤, 𐑑𐑫𐑒 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑯 𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑤 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑚𐑴𐑑, 𐑕𐑑𐑽𐑛 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛 𐑓 ·𐑑𐑭𐑣𐑰𐑑𐑦, 𐑓𐑲𐑝 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑛 𐑥𐑲𐑤𐑟 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑, 𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼 𐑩 𐑮𐑰𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑹𐑕𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑮𐑵.</p>
    <p>“𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑹𐑔 𐑛𐑱 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑤, 𐑩 𐑤𐑸𐑡 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑵 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑑𐑳𐑗𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑩 𐑤𐑴 𐑲𐑤 𐑝 𐑒𐑪𐑮𐑩𐑤𐑟. 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑑𐑽𐑛 𐑩𐑢𐑱 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑦𐑑; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑡 𐑒𐑮𐑭𐑓𐑑 𐑚𐑹 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥; 𐑯 𐑕𐑵𐑯 𐑞 𐑝𐑶𐑕 𐑝 ·𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑑 𐑣𐑱𐑤𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑑 𐑣𐑰𐑝 𐑑, 𐑹 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑮𐑳𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼. 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑩 𐑐𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑤. 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑓𐑫𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑰𐑗 𐑐𐑮𐑬 𐑝 𐑞 𐑘𐑴𐑒𐑑 𐑢𐑹-𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑵𐑟, 𐑞 ·𐑤𐑱𐑒𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑤𐑭𐑓𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑑 𐑕𐑒𐑹𐑯; 𐑩𐑖𐑫𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑓 𐑞 𐑐𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑴 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑨𐑟 𐑒𐑤𐑦𐑒𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑤𐑪𐑒, 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑚𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑦𐑯 𐑚𐑳𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑯 𐑓𐑴𐑥.</p>
    <p>“'𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑛𐑵 𐑿 𐑢𐑪𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑥𐑰?' 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯.</p>
    <p>“'𐑢𐑺 𐑸 𐑿 𐑚𐑬𐑯𐑛? 𐑯 𐑓 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑸 𐑿 𐑚𐑬𐑯𐑛?' 𐑛𐑦𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑑; '𐑯𐑴 𐑤𐑲𐑟.'</p>
    <p>“'𐑲 𐑨𐑥 𐑚𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑑 ·𐑑𐑭𐑣𐑰𐑑𐑦 𐑓 𐑥𐑹 𐑥𐑧𐑯.'</p>
    <p>“'𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑜𐑫𐑛. 𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑥𐑰 𐑚𐑹𐑛 𐑿 𐑩 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑—𐑲 𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑦𐑯 𐑐𐑰𐑕.' 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑤𐑰𐑐𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑵, 𐑕𐑢𐑨𐑥 𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑; 𐑯 𐑒𐑤𐑲𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑜𐑳𐑯𐑩𐑤, 𐑕𐑑𐑫𐑛 𐑓𐑱𐑕 𐑑 𐑓𐑱𐑕 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯.</p>
    <p>“'𐑒𐑮𐑪𐑕 𐑘𐑹 𐑸𐑥𐑟, 𐑕𐑻; 𐑔𐑮𐑴 𐑚𐑨𐑒 𐑘𐑹 𐑣𐑧𐑛. 𐑯𐑬, 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑰𐑑 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑥𐑰. 𐑨𐑟 𐑕𐑵𐑯 𐑨𐑟 ·𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑑 𐑤𐑰𐑝𐑟 𐑥𐑰, 𐑲 𐑕𐑢𐑺 𐑑 𐑚𐑰𐑗 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑘𐑪𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛, 𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑱𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑕 𐑛𐑱𐑟. 𐑦𐑓 𐑲 𐑛𐑵 𐑯𐑪𐑑, 𐑥𐑱 𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑯𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑒 𐑥𐑰!'</p>
    <p>“'𐑩 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑕𐑒𐑪𐑤𐑼,' 𐑤𐑭𐑓𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑤𐑱𐑒𐑥𐑩𐑯. '𐑭𐑛𐑦𐑪𐑕, ·𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑘𐑹!' 𐑯 𐑤𐑰𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑕𐑰, 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑢𐑨𐑥 𐑚𐑨𐑒 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑮𐑱𐑛𐑟.</p>
    <p>“𐑢𐑪𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑓𐑺𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑰𐑗𐑑, 𐑯 𐑛𐑮𐑷𐑯 𐑳𐑐 𐑑 𐑞 𐑮𐑵𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑒𐑴𐑒𐑴-𐑯𐑳𐑑 𐑑𐑮𐑰𐑟, ·𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑑 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑕𐑱𐑤 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯, 𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑛𐑿 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑼𐑲𐑝𐑛 𐑨𐑑 ·𐑑𐑭𐑣𐑰𐑑𐑦, 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕 𐑝 𐑛𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯. 𐑞𐑺, 𐑤𐑳𐑒 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥; 𐑑𐑵 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑕 𐑢𐑻 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑑 𐑕𐑱𐑤 𐑓 ·𐑓𐑮𐑭𐑯𐑕, 𐑯 𐑢𐑻 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑝𐑦𐑛𐑧𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑲𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑯𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑼 𐑝 𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼 𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑩𐑛. 𐑞𐑱 𐑦𐑥𐑚𐑸𐑒𐑑; 𐑯 𐑕𐑴 𐑓 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑜𐑪𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑑 𐑝 𐑞𐑺 𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑼 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯, 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑣𐑰 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑑 𐑢𐑻𐑒 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑤𐑰𐑜𐑩𐑤 𐑮𐑧𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑚𐑿𐑖𐑩𐑯.</p>
    <p>“𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑑𐑧𐑯 𐑛𐑱𐑟 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑞 ·𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑯𐑗 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑕 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑛, 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑼𐑲𐑝𐑛, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑓𐑹𐑕𐑑 𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑤𐑦𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑝 𐑞 𐑥𐑹 𐑕𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑤𐑲𐑟𐑛 ·𐑑𐑭𐑣𐑰𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟, 𐑣𐑵 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑿𐑟𐑛 𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑰. 𐑗𐑸𐑑𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤 𐑯𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑝 𐑕𐑒𐑵𐑯𐑼, 𐑣𐑰 𐑮𐑩𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑝𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑤; 𐑯 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑷𐑤 𐑮𐑲𐑑 𐑞𐑺, 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑿𐑥𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑟𐑦𐑙𐑟.</p>
    <p>“𐑢𐑺 ·𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑑 𐑯𐑬 𐑦𐑟, 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑯𐑳𐑯 𐑯𐑴; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑝 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑, 𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑛𐑴 𐑝 ·𐑮𐑨𐑛𐑯𐑦 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑟 𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑰 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑮𐑦𐑓𐑿𐑟𐑩𐑟 𐑑 𐑜𐑦𐑝 𐑳𐑐 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑛𐑧𐑛; 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑛𐑮𐑰𐑥𐑟 𐑕𐑰𐑟 𐑞 𐑷𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑶𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥. * * * *</p>
    <p>“'𐑸 𐑿 𐑔𐑮𐑵?' 𐑕𐑧𐑛 ·𐑛𐑪𐑯 ·𐑕𐑦𐑚𐑨𐑕𐑗𐑩𐑯, 𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑩𐑑𐑤𐑦.</p>
    <p>“'𐑲 𐑨𐑥, ·𐑛𐑪𐑯.'</p>
    <p>“'𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑲 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑰𐑑 𐑿, 𐑑𐑧𐑤 𐑥𐑰 𐑦𐑓 𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑘𐑹 𐑴𐑯 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑝𐑦𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟, 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑘𐑹 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑦 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑚𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑮𐑾𐑤𐑦 𐑑𐑮𐑵? 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑴 𐑐𐑭𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑓𐑩𐑤! 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑿 𐑜𐑧𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑩𐑯 𐑳𐑯𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑕𐑗𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑹𐑕? 𐑚𐑺 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑥𐑰 𐑦𐑓 𐑲 𐑕𐑰𐑥 𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑕.'</p>
    <p>“'𐑷𐑤𐑕𐑴 𐑚𐑺 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑷𐑤 𐑝 𐑳𐑕, 𐑕𐑻 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼; 𐑓 𐑢𐑰 𐑷𐑤 𐑡𐑶𐑯 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑛𐑪𐑯 ·𐑕𐑦𐑚𐑨𐑕𐑗𐑩𐑯'𐑟 𐑕𐑵𐑑,' 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 𐑞 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑦, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑰𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑩𐑕𐑑.</p>
    <p>“'𐑦𐑟 𐑞𐑺 𐑩 𐑒𐑪𐑐𐑦 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑦 ·𐑦𐑝𐑨𐑯𐑡𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑜𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑩𐑯 ·𐑦𐑯, 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯?'</p>
    <p>“'𐑯𐑱,' 𐑕𐑧𐑛 ·𐑛𐑪𐑯 ·𐑕𐑦𐑚𐑨𐑕𐑗𐑩𐑯; '𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑲 𐑯𐑴 𐑩 𐑢𐑻𐑞𐑦 𐑐𐑮𐑰𐑕𐑑 𐑯𐑽 𐑚𐑲, 𐑣𐑵 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑓 𐑥𐑰. 𐑲 𐑜𐑴 𐑓 𐑦𐑑; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑸 𐑿 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑩𐑛𐑝𐑲𐑟𐑛? 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑥𐑱 𐑜𐑮𐑴 𐑑𐑵 𐑕𐑽𐑾𐑕.'</p>
    <p>“'𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑿 𐑚𐑰 𐑕𐑴 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑨𐑟 𐑑 𐑚𐑮𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑰𐑕𐑑 𐑷𐑤𐑕𐑴, ·𐑛𐑪𐑯?'</p>
    <p>“'𐑞𐑴 𐑞𐑺 𐑸 𐑯𐑴 ·𐑷𐑑𐑴-𐑛𐑭-·𐑓𐑧𐑕 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑤𐑰𐑥𐑩 𐑯𐑬,' 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑦 𐑑 𐑩𐑯𐑳𐑞𐑼; '𐑲 𐑓𐑽 𐑬𐑼 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼 𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑮𐑳𐑯𐑟 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑒 𐑝 𐑞 archiepiscopacy. 𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑳𐑕 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑛𐑮𐑷 𐑥𐑹 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑥𐑵𐑯𐑤𐑲𐑑. 𐑲 𐑕𐑰 𐑯𐑴 𐑯𐑰𐑛 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕.'</p>
    <p>“'𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑒𐑿𐑕 𐑥𐑰 𐑓 𐑮𐑳𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑿, ·𐑛𐑪𐑯 ·𐑕𐑦𐑚𐑨𐑕𐑗𐑩𐑯; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑥𐑱 𐑲 𐑷𐑤𐑕𐑴 𐑚𐑧𐑜 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑿 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑚𐑰 𐑐𐑼𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑤𐑸𐑡𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑲𐑟𐑛 ·𐑦𐑝𐑨𐑯𐑡𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑕 𐑿 𐑒𐑨𐑯.'</p>
    <p>* * * * * *</p>
    <p>“'𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑰𐑕𐑑, 𐑣𐑰 𐑚𐑮𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑿 𐑞 ·𐑦𐑝𐑨𐑯𐑡𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑕,' 𐑕𐑧𐑛 ·𐑛𐑪𐑯 ·𐑕𐑦𐑚𐑨𐑕𐑗𐑩𐑯, 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑝𐑤𐑦, 𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑑𐑷𐑤 𐑯 𐑕𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑥 𐑓𐑦𐑜𐑼.</p>
    <p>“'𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑥𐑰 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑵𐑝 𐑥𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑑. 𐑯𐑬, 𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑐𐑮𐑰𐑕𐑑, 𐑓𐑻𐑞𐑼 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑤𐑲𐑑, 𐑯 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑞 ·𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑦 ·𐑚𐑫𐑒 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑥𐑰 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑲 𐑥𐑱 𐑑𐑳𐑗 𐑦𐑑.</p>
    <p>“'𐑕𐑴 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑐 𐑥𐑰 ·𐑣𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯, 𐑯 𐑪𐑯 𐑥𐑲 𐑪𐑯𐑼 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑦 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑑𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑘𐑰, 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑚𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑯 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑥𐑟, 𐑑𐑮𐑵. 𐑲 𐑯𐑴 𐑦𐑑 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑑𐑮𐑵; 𐑦𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑪𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑚𐑷𐑤; 𐑲 𐑑𐑮𐑪𐑛 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐; 𐑲 𐑯𐑿 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑵; 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑕𐑰𐑯 𐑯 𐑑𐑷𐑒𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 ·𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑑 𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑕 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑔 𐑝 ·𐑮𐑨𐑛𐑯𐑦.'”</p>
  </body>
</html>
