<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Chapter 40</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="chapter-40" xml:lang="en-US">
      <h2 id="chapterheader-40">·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 40. 𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑯𐑲𐑑, ·𐑓𐑴𐑒𐑕𐑩𐑤.</h2>
    </div>
    <p>·𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽𐑟 𐑯 ·𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼𐑟.</p>
    <p>(<i>𐑓𐑹𐑕𐑱𐑤 𐑮𐑲𐑟𐑩𐑟 𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑳𐑝𐑼𐑟 𐑞 𐑢𐑪𐑗 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙, 𐑤𐑬𐑯𐑡𐑦𐑙, 𐑤𐑰𐑯𐑦𐑙, 𐑯 𐑤𐑲𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑝𐑺𐑾𐑕 𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛𐑟, 𐑷𐑤 𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑒𐑹𐑩𐑕</i>.)</p>
    <p>1·𐑕𐑑 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑 ·𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼. 𐑴, 𐑚𐑶𐑟, 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤; 𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑚𐑨𐑛 𐑓 𐑞 𐑛𐑲𐑡𐑧𐑕𐑗𐑩𐑯! 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑩 𐑑𐑪𐑯𐑦𐑒, 𐑓𐑪𐑤𐑴 𐑥𐑰!</p>
    <p>(<i>𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑟, 𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑓𐑪𐑤𐑴.</i>)</p>
    <p>·𐑥𐑱𐑑'𐑕 ·𐑝𐑶𐑕 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑢𐑹𐑑𐑼-·𐑛𐑧𐑒. 𐑱𐑑 𐑚𐑧𐑤𐑟 𐑞𐑺, 𐑓𐑹𐑢𐑼𐑛!</p>
    <p>2·𐑛 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑 ·𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼. 𐑩𐑝𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑞 𐑒𐑹𐑩𐑕! 𐑱𐑑 𐑚𐑧𐑤𐑟 𐑞𐑺! 𐑛'𐑘𐑰 𐑣𐑽, 𐑚𐑧𐑤-𐑚𐑶? 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑒 𐑞 𐑚𐑧𐑤 𐑱𐑑, 𐑞𐑬 ·𐑐𐑦𐑐! 𐑞𐑬 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒𐑤𐑦𐑙! 𐑯 𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑥𐑰 𐑒𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑢𐑪𐑗. 𐑲'𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑥𐑬𐑔 𐑓 𐑞𐑨𐑑—𐑞 𐑣𐑪𐑜𐑟𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑥𐑬𐑔. 𐑕𐑴, 𐑕𐑴, (<i>𐑔𐑮𐑳𐑕𐑑𐑕 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑒𐑳𐑑𐑩𐑤</i>,) ·𐑕𐑑𐑸-𐑚𐑴-l-𐑰-𐑰-n-𐑟, 𐑩-h-𐑴-𐑦! 𐑱𐑑 𐑚𐑧𐑤𐑟 𐑞𐑺 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑴! 𐑑𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑳𐑐!</p>
    <p>·𐑛𐑳𐑗 ·𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼. 𐑜𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑕𐑯𐑵𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑑-𐑯𐑲𐑑, 𐑥𐑱𐑑𐑦; 𐑓𐑨𐑑 𐑯𐑲𐑑 𐑓 𐑞𐑨𐑑. 𐑲 𐑥𐑸𐑒 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑬𐑼 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑥𐑴𐑜𐑩𐑤'𐑟 𐑢𐑲𐑯; 𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑛𐑧𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑨𐑟 𐑓𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑳𐑞𐑼𐑟. 𐑢𐑰 𐑕𐑦𐑙; 𐑞𐑱 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐—𐑲, 𐑤𐑲 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑞𐑺, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑜𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛-𐑑𐑽 𐑚𐑳𐑑𐑕. 𐑨𐑑 '𐑩𐑥 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯! 𐑞𐑺, 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑒𐑪𐑐𐑼-𐑐𐑳𐑥𐑐, 𐑯 𐑣𐑱𐑤 '𐑩𐑥 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑦𐑑. 𐑑𐑧𐑤 '𐑩𐑥 𐑑 𐑩𐑝𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑛𐑮𐑰𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑞𐑺 𐑤𐑨𐑕𐑩𐑟. 𐑑𐑧𐑤 '𐑩𐑥 𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑞 𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑼𐑧𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯; 𐑞𐑱 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑒𐑦𐑕 𐑞𐑺 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑, 𐑯 𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑑 𐑡𐑳𐑡𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑. 𐑞𐑨𐑑'𐑕 𐑞 𐑢𐑱—<i>𐑞𐑨𐑑'𐑕</i> 𐑦𐑑; 𐑞𐑲 𐑔𐑮𐑴𐑑 𐑱𐑯𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑶𐑤𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑰𐑑𐑦𐑙 ·𐑨𐑥𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑛𐑨𐑥 𐑚𐑳𐑑𐑼.</p>
    <p>·𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑯𐑗 ·𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼. 𐑣𐑦𐑕𐑑, 𐑚𐑶𐑟! 𐑤𐑧𐑑'𐑕 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑩 𐑡𐑦𐑜 𐑹 𐑑𐑵 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑢𐑰 𐑮𐑲𐑛 𐑑 𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑼 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑩𐑑 ·𐑚𐑱. 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑱 𐑘𐑰? 𐑞𐑺 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑟 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑢𐑪𐑗. 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑷𐑤 𐑤𐑧𐑜𐑟! 𐑐𐑦𐑐! 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 ·𐑐𐑦𐑐! 𐑣𐑼𐑭 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑘𐑹 𐑑𐑨𐑥𐑚𐑼𐑰𐑯!</p>
    <p>·𐑐𐑦𐑐. (<i>𐑕𐑳𐑤𐑒𐑦 𐑯 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐𐑦.</i>) 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑯𐑴 𐑢𐑺 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟.</p>
    <p>·𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑯𐑗 ·𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼. 𐑚𐑰𐑑 𐑞𐑲 𐑚𐑧𐑤𐑦, 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑯 𐑢𐑨𐑜 𐑞𐑲 𐑽𐑟. 𐑡𐑦𐑜 𐑦𐑑, 𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑲 𐑕𐑱; 𐑥𐑧𐑮𐑦'𐑟 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑛; 𐑣𐑼𐑭! 𐑛𐑨𐑥 𐑥𐑰, 𐑢𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑿 𐑛𐑭𐑯𐑕? 𐑓𐑹𐑥, 𐑯𐑬, ·𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑾𐑯-𐑓𐑲𐑤, 𐑯 𐑜𐑨𐑤𐑩𐑐 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑛𐑳𐑚𐑩𐑤-𐑖𐑳𐑓𐑩𐑤? 𐑔𐑮𐑴 𐑘𐑹𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑝𐑟! 𐑤𐑧𐑜𐑟! 𐑤𐑧𐑜𐑟!</p>
    <p>·𐑲𐑕𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛 ·𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼. 𐑲 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑘𐑹 𐑓𐑤𐑹, 𐑥𐑱𐑑𐑦; 𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑑𐑵 𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑙𐑦 𐑑 𐑥𐑲 𐑑𐑱𐑕𐑑. 𐑲'𐑥 𐑿𐑕𐑑 𐑑 𐑲𐑕-𐑓𐑤𐑹𐑟. 𐑲'𐑥 𐑕𐑪𐑮𐑦 𐑑 𐑔𐑮𐑴 𐑒𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑚𐑡𐑧𐑒𐑑; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑒𐑿𐑕 𐑥𐑰.</p>
    <p>·𐑥𐑷𐑤𐑑𐑰𐑟 ·𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼. 𐑥𐑰 𐑑𐑵; 𐑢𐑺'𐑟 𐑘𐑹 𐑜𐑻𐑤𐑟? 𐑣𐑵 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩 𐑓𐑵𐑤 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑧𐑓𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑮𐑲𐑑, 𐑯 𐑕𐑱 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓, 𐑣𐑬 𐑛'𐑘𐑰 𐑛𐑵? 𐑐𐑸𐑑𐑯𐑼𐑟! 𐑲 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑐𐑸𐑑𐑯𐑼𐑟!</p>
    <p>·𐑕𐑦𐑕𐑦𐑤𐑾𐑯 ·𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼. 𐑲; 𐑜𐑻𐑤𐑟 𐑯 𐑩 𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑯!—𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑲'𐑤 𐑣𐑪𐑐 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑘𐑰; 𐑘𐑱, 𐑑𐑻𐑯 𐑜𐑮𐑭𐑕𐑣𐑪𐑐𐑼!</p>
    <p>·𐑤𐑪𐑙-·𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛 ·𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼. 𐑢𐑧𐑤, 𐑢𐑧𐑤, 𐑘𐑰 𐑕𐑳𐑤𐑒𐑦𐑟, 𐑞𐑺'𐑟 𐑐𐑤𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑦 𐑥𐑹 𐑝 𐑳𐑕. 𐑣𐑴 𐑒𐑹𐑯 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑿 𐑥𐑱, 𐑕𐑱 𐑲. 𐑷𐑤 𐑤𐑧𐑜𐑟 𐑜𐑴 𐑑 𐑣𐑸𐑝𐑦𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑵𐑯. 𐑭! 𐑣𐑽 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑟 𐑞 𐑥𐑿𐑟𐑦𐑒; 𐑯𐑬 𐑓 𐑦𐑑!</p>
    <p>·𐑩𐑟𐑹 ·𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼. (<i>𐑩𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙, 𐑯 𐑐𐑦𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑑𐑨𐑥𐑚𐑼𐑰𐑯 𐑳𐑐 𐑞 𐑕𐑒𐑳𐑑𐑩𐑤</i>.) 𐑣𐑽 𐑿 𐑸, ·𐑐𐑦𐑐; 𐑯 𐑞𐑺'𐑟 𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑩𐑕-𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑕; 𐑳𐑐 𐑿 𐑥𐑬𐑯𐑑! 𐑯𐑬, 𐑚𐑶𐑟! (<i>𐑞 𐑣𐑭𐑓 𐑝 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑛𐑭𐑯𐑕 𐑑 𐑞 𐑑𐑨𐑥𐑚𐑼𐑰𐑯; 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑜𐑴 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑴; 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐 𐑹 𐑤𐑲 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑞 𐑒𐑶𐑤𐑟 𐑝 𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑦𐑙. 𐑴𐑞𐑟 𐑩-𐑐𐑤𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑦</i>.)</p>
    <p>·𐑩𐑟𐑹 ·𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼. (<i>𐑛𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑙</i>) 𐑜𐑴 𐑦𐑑, ·𐑐𐑦𐑐! 𐑚𐑨𐑙 𐑦𐑑, 𐑚𐑧𐑤-𐑚𐑶! 𐑮𐑦𐑜 𐑦𐑑, 𐑛𐑦𐑜 𐑦𐑑, 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑜 𐑦𐑑, 𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑜 𐑦𐑑, 𐑚𐑧𐑤-𐑚𐑶! 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑓𐑲𐑼-𐑓𐑤𐑲𐑟; 𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑒 𐑞 𐑡𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑩𐑤𐑼𐑟!</p>
    <p>·𐑐𐑦𐑐. 𐑡𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑩𐑤𐑼𐑟, 𐑿 𐑕𐑱?—𐑞𐑺 𐑜𐑴𐑟 𐑩𐑯𐑳𐑞𐑼, 𐑛𐑮𐑪𐑐𐑑 𐑪𐑓; 𐑲 𐑐𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑴.</p>
    <p>·𐑗𐑲𐑯𐑩 ·𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼. 𐑮𐑨𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑞𐑲 𐑑𐑰𐑔, 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑯 𐑐𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑩𐑢𐑱; 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑩 𐑐𐑩𐑜𐑴𐑛𐑩 𐑝 𐑞𐑲𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓.</p>
    <p>·𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑯𐑗 ·𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼. 𐑥𐑧𐑮𐑦-𐑥𐑨𐑛! 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑳𐑐 𐑞𐑲 𐑣𐑵𐑐, ·𐑐𐑦𐑐, 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑲 𐑡𐑳𐑥𐑐 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑦𐑑! 𐑕𐑐𐑤𐑦𐑑 𐑡𐑦𐑚𐑟! 𐑑𐑺 𐑘𐑹𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑝𐑟!</p>
    <p>·𐑑𐑨𐑖𐑑𐑱𐑜𐑴. (<i>𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑩𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑥𐑴𐑒𐑦𐑙.</i>) 𐑞𐑨𐑑'𐑕 𐑩 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑯; 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑓𐑳𐑯: 𐑣𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑓! 𐑲 𐑕𐑱𐑝 𐑥𐑲 𐑕𐑢𐑧𐑑.</p>
    <p>·𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑥𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑕 ·𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼. 𐑲 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑢𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑡𐑪𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑨𐑛𐑟 𐑚𐑦𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑝 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑞𐑱 𐑸 𐑛𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑴𐑝𐑼. 𐑲'𐑤 𐑛𐑭𐑯𐑕 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑘𐑹 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑝, 𐑲 𐑢𐑦𐑤—𐑞𐑨𐑑'𐑕 𐑞 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑼𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑔𐑮𐑧𐑑 𐑝 𐑘𐑹 𐑯𐑲𐑑-𐑢𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑯, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑚𐑰𐑑 𐑣𐑧𐑛-𐑢𐑲𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑒𐑹𐑯𐑼𐑟. 𐑴 ·𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑕𐑑! 𐑑 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑝 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑯 𐑯𐑱𐑝𐑦𐑟 𐑯 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑯-𐑕𐑒𐑳𐑤𐑛 𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑟! 𐑢𐑧𐑤, 𐑢𐑧𐑤; 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛'𐑟 𐑩 𐑚𐑷𐑤, 𐑨𐑟 𐑿 𐑕𐑒𐑪𐑤𐑼𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑦𐑑; 𐑯 𐑕𐑴 '𐑑𐑦𐑟 𐑮𐑲𐑑 𐑑 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑚𐑷𐑤𐑮𐑵𐑥 𐑝 𐑦𐑑. 𐑛𐑭𐑯𐑕 𐑪𐑯, 𐑤𐑨𐑛𐑟, 𐑿'𐑼 𐑘𐑳𐑙; 𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕.</p>
    <p>3D ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑 ·𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼. 𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑤 𐑴!—𐑓𐑿! 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑻𐑕 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑐𐑫𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑒𐑭𐑥—𐑜𐑦𐑝 𐑳𐑕 𐑩 𐑢𐑦𐑓, ·𐑑𐑨𐑖.</p>
    <p>(<i>𐑞𐑱 𐑕𐑰𐑕 𐑛𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑙, 𐑯 𐑜𐑨𐑞𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑒𐑤𐑳𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑟. 𐑥𐑰𐑯𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑞 𐑕𐑒𐑲 𐑛𐑸𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑟—𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛 𐑮𐑲𐑟𐑩𐑟</i>.)</p>
    <p>·𐑤𐑨𐑕𐑒𐑼 ·𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼. 𐑚𐑲 ·𐑚𐑮𐑭𐑥𐑩! 𐑚𐑶𐑟, 𐑦𐑑'𐑤 𐑚𐑰 𐑛𐑬𐑕 𐑕𐑱𐑤 𐑕𐑵𐑯. 𐑞 𐑕𐑒𐑲-𐑚𐑹𐑯, 𐑣𐑲-𐑑𐑲𐑛 ·𐑜𐑨𐑯𐑡𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑢𐑲𐑯𐑛! 𐑞𐑬 𐑖𐑴𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑲 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒 𐑚𐑮𐑬, ·𐑕𐑰𐑝𐑩!</p>
    <p>·𐑥𐑷𐑤𐑑𐑰𐑟 ·𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼. (<i>𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑯 𐑖𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑨𐑐</i>.) 𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑝𐑟—𐑞 𐑕𐑯𐑴'𐑟 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑕 𐑑𐑻𐑯 𐑑 𐑡𐑦𐑜 𐑦𐑑 𐑯𐑬. 𐑞𐑱'𐑤 𐑖𐑱𐑒 𐑞𐑺 𐑑𐑨𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑕𐑵𐑯. 𐑯𐑬 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑝𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑢𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑯, 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑲'𐑛 𐑜𐑴 𐑛𐑮𐑬𐑯, 𐑯 𐑖𐑨𐑕𐑱𐑰 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑥𐑹! 𐑞𐑺'𐑟 𐑯𐑷𐑑 𐑕𐑴 𐑕𐑢𐑰𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑻𐑔—𐑣𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑥𐑱 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑗 𐑦𐑑!—𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑓𐑑 𐑜𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑝 𐑢𐑹𐑥, 𐑢𐑲𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑫𐑟𐑩𐑥𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑛𐑭𐑯𐑕, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞 𐑴𐑝𐑼-𐑸𐑚𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑸𐑥𐑟 𐑣𐑲𐑛 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑮𐑲𐑐, 𐑚𐑻𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑐𐑕.</p>
    <p>·𐑕𐑦𐑕𐑦𐑤𐑾𐑯 ·𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼. (<i>𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑦𐑙</i>.) 𐑑𐑧𐑤 𐑥𐑰 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑝 𐑦𐑑! 𐑣𐑸𐑒 𐑘𐑰, 𐑤𐑨𐑛—𐑓𐑤𐑰𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑤𐑱𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑤𐑦𐑥𐑟—𐑤𐑲𐑞 𐑕𐑢𐑱𐑦𐑙𐑟—𐑒𐑶𐑦𐑙𐑟—𐑓𐑤𐑳𐑑𐑼𐑦𐑙𐑟! 𐑤𐑦𐑐! 𐑣𐑸𐑑! 𐑣𐑦𐑐! 𐑷𐑤 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑟: 𐑳𐑯𐑕𐑰𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑑𐑳𐑗 𐑯 𐑜𐑴! 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑑𐑱𐑕𐑑, 𐑩𐑚𐑟𐑻𐑝 𐑘𐑰, 𐑧𐑤𐑕 𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑕𐑩𐑑𐑲𐑩𐑑𐑦. 𐑱, ·𐑐𐑱𐑜𐑩𐑯? (<i>𐑯𐑳𐑡𐑦𐑙</i>.)</p>
    <p>·𐑑𐑩𐑙𐑰𐑑𐑩𐑯 ·𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼. (<i>𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑯 𐑩 𐑥𐑨𐑑</i>.) 𐑣𐑱𐑤, 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑦 𐑯𐑱𐑒𐑩𐑛𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑬𐑼 𐑛𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑜𐑻𐑤𐑟!—𐑞 ·𐑙𐑰𐑝𐑩-·𐑙𐑰𐑝𐑩! 𐑭! 𐑤𐑴 𐑝𐑱𐑤𐑛, 𐑣𐑲 𐑐𐑭𐑥𐑛 ·𐑑𐑭𐑣𐑰𐑑𐑦! 𐑲 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑰 𐑪𐑯 𐑞𐑲 𐑥𐑨𐑑, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑪𐑓𐑑 𐑕𐑶𐑤 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑕𐑤𐑦𐑛! 𐑲 𐑕𐑷 𐑞𐑰 𐑢𐑴𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑫𐑛, 𐑥𐑲 𐑥𐑨𐑑! 𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑛𐑱 𐑲 𐑚𐑮𐑷𐑑 𐑘𐑰 𐑞𐑧𐑯𐑕; 𐑯𐑬 𐑢𐑹𐑯 𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑤𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑑. 𐑭 𐑥𐑰!—𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑞𐑬 𐑯𐑹 𐑲 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑚𐑺 𐑞 𐑗𐑱𐑯𐑡! 𐑣𐑬 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑦𐑓 𐑕𐑴 𐑚𐑰 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑐𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑑 𐑘𐑪𐑯 𐑕𐑒𐑲? 𐑣𐑽 𐑲 𐑞 𐑮𐑹𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑰𐑥𐑟 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 ·𐑐𐑦𐑮𐑴𐑙𐑦𐑑𐑦'𐑟 𐑐𐑰𐑒 𐑝 𐑕𐑐𐑽𐑟, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞𐑱 𐑤𐑰𐑐 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑨𐑜𐑟 𐑯 𐑛𐑮𐑬𐑯 𐑞 𐑝𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑟?—𐑞 𐑚𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑! 𐑞 𐑚𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑! 𐑳𐑐, 𐑕𐑐𐑲𐑯, 𐑯 𐑥𐑰𐑑 𐑦𐑑! (<i>𐑤𐑰𐑐𐑕 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑰𐑑</i>.)</p>
    <p>·𐑐𐑹𐑗𐑩𐑜𐑰𐑟 ·𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼. 𐑣𐑬 𐑞 𐑕𐑰 𐑮𐑴𐑤𐑟 𐑕𐑢𐑭𐑖𐑦𐑙 '𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑲𐑛! 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑓 𐑮𐑰𐑓𐑦𐑙, 𐑣𐑸𐑑𐑦𐑟! 𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑸 𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑒𐑮𐑪𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑹𐑛𐑟, 𐑐𐑧𐑤-𐑥𐑧𐑤 𐑞𐑱'𐑤 𐑜𐑴 𐑤𐑳𐑯𐑡𐑦𐑙 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦.</p>
    <p>·𐑛𐑱𐑯𐑦𐑖 ·𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼. 𐑒𐑮𐑨𐑒, 𐑒𐑮𐑨𐑒, 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑖𐑦𐑐! 𐑕𐑴 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑬 𐑒𐑮𐑨𐑒𐑩𐑕𐑑, 𐑞𐑬 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑩𐑕𐑑! 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑛𐑳𐑯! 𐑞 𐑥𐑱𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑟 𐑘𐑰 𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑓𐑤𐑦. 𐑣𐑰'𐑟 𐑯𐑴 𐑥𐑹 𐑩𐑓𐑮𐑱𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑞 𐑲𐑤 𐑓𐑹𐑑 𐑨𐑑 ·𐑒𐑨𐑑𐑩𐑜𐑨𐑑, 𐑐𐑫𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑑 𐑓𐑲𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑚𐑷𐑤𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑥-𐑤𐑨𐑖𐑑 𐑜𐑳𐑯𐑟, 𐑪𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑞 𐑕𐑰-𐑕𐑷𐑤𐑑 𐑒𐑱𐑒𐑕!</p>
    <p>4·𐑔 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑 ·𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼. 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑹𐑛𐑼𐑟, 𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑘𐑰 𐑞𐑨𐑑. 𐑲 𐑣𐑻𐑛 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑑𐑧𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑣𐑰 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑷𐑤𐑢𐑱𐑟 𐑒𐑦𐑤 𐑩 𐑕𐑒𐑢𐑷𐑤, 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑱 𐑚𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑩 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼𐑕𐑐𐑬𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑐𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑤—𐑓𐑲𐑼 𐑘𐑹 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑮𐑲𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑦𐑑!</p>
    <p>·𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑤𐑦𐑖 ·𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼. 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑛! 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑥𐑨𐑯'𐑟 𐑩 𐑜𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑒𐑴𐑝! 𐑢𐑰 𐑸 𐑞 𐑤𐑨𐑛𐑟 𐑑 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑳𐑐 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑱𐑤!</p>
    <p>𐑷𐑤. 𐑲! 𐑲!</p>
    <p>·𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑥𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑕 ·𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼. 𐑣𐑬 𐑞 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑐𐑲𐑯𐑟 𐑖𐑱𐑒! 𐑐𐑲𐑯𐑟 𐑸 𐑞 𐑣𐑸𐑛𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑑𐑮𐑰 𐑑 𐑤𐑦𐑝 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑖𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑑 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑕𐑶𐑤, 𐑯 𐑣𐑽 𐑞𐑺'𐑟 𐑯𐑳𐑯 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑵'𐑟 𐑒𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑒𐑤𐑱. 𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑛𐑦, 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑥𐑟𐑥𐑩𐑯! 𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑛𐑦. 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑢𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑝 𐑣𐑸𐑑𐑕 𐑕𐑯𐑨𐑐 𐑩𐑖𐑹, 𐑯 𐑒𐑰𐑤𐑛 𐑣𐑳𐑤𐑟 𐑕𐑐𐑤𐑦𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑰. 𐑬𐑼 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑻𐑔𐑥𐑸𐑒; 𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑘𐑪𐑯𐑛𐑼, 𐑚𐑶𐑟, 𐑞𐑺'𐑟 𐑩𐑯𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑒𐑲—𐑤𐑫𐑼𐑦𐑛-𐑤𐑲𐑒, 𐑘𐑰 𐑕𐑰, 𐑷𐑤 𐑧𐑤𐑕 𐑐𐑦𐑗 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒.</p>
    <p>·𐑛𐑨𐑜𐑵. 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑝 𐑞𐑨𐑑? 𐑣𐑵'𐑟 𐑩𐑓𐑮𐑱𐑛 𐑝 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒'𐑕 𐑩𐑓𐑮𐑱𐑛 𐑝 𐑥𐑰! 𐑲'𐑥 𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑛 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑦𐑑!</p>
    <p>·𐑕𐑐𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑖 ·𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼. (<i>𐑩𐑕𐑲𐑛</i>.) 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑑 𐑚𐑫𐑤𐑦, 𐑭!—𐑞 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑜𐑮𐑳𐑡 𐑥𐑱𐑒𐑕 𐑥𐑰 𐑑𐑳𐑗𐑦 (<i>·𐑩𐑛𐑝𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑙</i>.) 𐑲, 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽, 𐑞𐑲 𐑮𐑱𐑕 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑲𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑛𐑸𐑒 𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑝 𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑒𐑲𐑯𐑛—𐑛𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑖 𐑛𐑸𐑒 𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑. 𐑯𐑴 𐑩𐑓𐑧𐑯𐑕.</p>
    <p>·𐑛𐑨𐑜𐑵 (<i>𐑜𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑤𐑦</i>). 𐑯𐑳𐑯.</p>
    <p>·𐑕𐑑 ·𐑡𐑨𐑜𐑴'𐑟 ·𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼. 𐑞𐑨𐑑 ·𐑕𐑐𐑨𐑯𐑘𐑼𐑛'𐑟 𐑥𐑨𐑛 𐑹 𐑛𐑮𐑳𐑙𐑒. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑒𐑭𐑯𐑑 𐑚𐑰, 𐑹 𐑧𐑤𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑒𐑱𐑕 𐑬𐑼 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑥𐑴𐑜𐑩𐑤'𐑟 𐑓𐑲𐑼-𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑸 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑻𐑒𐑦𐑙.</p>
    <p>5·𐑔 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑 ·𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼. 𐑢𐑪𐑑'𐑕 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑲 𐑕𐑷—𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑯𐑦𐑙? 𐑘𐑧𐑕.</p>
    <p>·𐑕𐑐𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑖 ·𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼. 𐑯𐑴; ·𐑛𐑨𐑜𐑵 𐑖𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑰𐑔.</p>
    <p>·𐑛𐑨𐑜𐑵 (<i>𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑙𐑦𐑙</i>). 𐑕𐑢𐑪𐑤𐑴 𐑞𐑲𐑯, 𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑒𐑦𐑯! 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑕𐑒𐑦𐑯, 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑼!</p>
    <p>·𐑕𐑐𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑖 ·𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼 (<i>𐑥𐑰𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥</i>). 𐑯𐑲𐑓 𐑞𐑰 𐑣𐑸𐑑𐑦𐑤𐑦! 𐑚𐑦𐑜 𐑓𐑮𐑱𐑥, 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤 𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑮𐑦𐑑!</p>
    <p>𐑷𐑤. 𐑩 𐑮𐑴! 𐑩 𐑮𐑴! 𐑩 𐑮𐑴!</p>
    <p>·𐑑𐑨𐑖𐑑𐑱𐑜𐑴 (<i>𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑢𐑦𐑓</i>). 𐑩 𐑮𐑴 𐑩'𐑤𐑴, 𐑯 𐑩 𐑮𐑴 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑓𐑑—·𐑜𐑪𐑛𐑟 𐑯 𐑥𐑧𐑯—𐑚𐑴𐑔 𐑚𐑮𐑷𐑤𐑼𐑟! 𐑣𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑓!</p>
    <p>·𐑚𐑧𐑤𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑑 ·𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼. 𐑩 𐑮𐑴! ·𐑸𐑮𐑮𐑩 𐑩 𐑮𐑴! 𐑞 ·𐑝𐑻𐑡𐑦𐑯 𐑚𐑰 𐑚𐑤𐑧𐑕𐑑, 𐑩 𐑮𐑴! 𐑐𐑤𐑳𐑯𐑡 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑘𐑰!</p>
    <p>·𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑤𐑦𐑖 ·𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼. 𐑓𐑺 𐑐𐑤𐑱! 𐑕𐑯𐑨𐑗 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑐𐑨𐑯𐑘𐑼𐑛'𐑟 𐑯𐑲𐑓! 𐑩 𐑮𐑦𐑙, 𐑩 𐑮𐑦𐑙!</p>
    <p>·𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑥𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑕 ·𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼. 𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑦 𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑛. 𐑞𐑺! 𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑙𐑛 𐑣𐑼𐑲𐑟𐑩𐑯. 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑙 ·𐑒𐑱𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑒 ·𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤. 𐑕𐑢𐑰𐑑 𐑢𐑻𐑒, 𐑮𐑲𐑑 𐑢𐑻𐑒! 𐑯𐑴? 𐑢𐑲 𐑞𐑧𐑯, ·𐑜𐑪𐑛, 𐑥𐑨𐑛'𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑬 𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑙?</p>
    <p>·𐑥𐑱𐑑'𐑕 ·𐑝𐑶𐑕 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑢𐑹𐑑𐑼-·𐑛𐑧𐑒. 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑣𐑨𐑤𐑘𐑼𐑛𐑟! 𐑦𐑯 𐑑𐑪𐑐-𐑜𐑨𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑟! 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑑 𐑮𐑰𐑓 𐑑𐑪𐑐𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑟!</p>
    <p>𐑷𐑤. 𐑞 𐑕𐑒𐑢𐑷𐑤! 𐑞 𐑕𐑒𐑢𐑷𐑤! 𐑡𐑳𐑥𐑐, 𐑥𐑲 𐑡𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑟! (<i>𐑞𐑱 𐑕𐑒𐑨𐑑𐑼</i>.)</p>
    <p>·𐑐𐑦𐑐 (<i>𐑖𐑮𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑩𐑕</i>). 𐑡𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑟? 𐑤𐑹𐑛 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑐 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑡𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑟! 𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑖, 𐑒𐑮𐑨𐑖! 𐑞𐑺 𐑜𐑴𐑟 𐑞 𐑡𐑦𐑚-𐑕𐑑𐑱! 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑙-𐑢𐑨𐑙! 𐑜𐑪𐑛! 𐑛𐑳𐑒 𐑤𐑴𐑼, ·𐑐𐑦𐑐, 𐑣𐑽 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑟 𐑞 𐑮𐑶𐑩𐑤 𐑘𐑸𐑛! 𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑢𐑻𐑕 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛 𐑢𐑫𐑛𐑟, 𐑞 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑛𐑱 𐑝 𐑞 𐑘𐑽! 𐑣𐑵'𐑛 𐑜𐑴 𐑒𐑤𐑲𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑗𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑯𐑳𐑑𐑕 𐑯𐑬? 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑞𐑱 𐑜𐑴, 𐑷𐑤 𐑒𐑻𐑕𐑦𐑙, 𐑯 𐑣𐑽 𐑲 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑. 𐑓𐑲𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑕 𐑑 '𐑩𐑥; 𐑞𐑱'𐑼 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑮𐑴𐑛 𐑑 𐑣𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯. 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑸𐑛! 𐑡𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑦, 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑩 𐑕𐑒𐑢𐑷𐑤! 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑕 𐑞𐑺 𐑸 𐑢𐑻𐑕 𐑘𐑧𐑑—𐑞𐑱 𐑸 𐑘𐑹 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑕𐑒𐑢𐑷𐑤𐑟, 𐑞𐑱. 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑕𐑒𐑢𐑷𐑤𐑟? 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑖𐑻! 𐑖𐑻! 𐑣𐑽 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑲 𐑣𐑻𐑛 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑺 𐑗𐑨𐑑 𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑯𐑬, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤—𐑖𐑻! 𐑖𐑻!—𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑴𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕! 𐑯 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑰𐑝𐑯𐑦𐑙—𐑦𐑑 𐑥𐑱𐑒𐑕 𐑥𐑰 𐑡𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑩𐑤 𐑷𐑤 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑥𐑲 𐑑𐑨𐑥𐑚𐑼𐑰𐑯—𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑨𐑯𐑩𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑛𐑩 𐑝 𐑩𐑯 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑕𐑢𐑹 '𐑩𐑥 𐑦𐑯 𐑑 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥! 𐑴, 𐑞𐑬 𐑚𐑦𐑜 𐑢𐑲𐑑 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑓𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑢𐑺 𐑦𐑯 𐑘𐑪𐑯 𐑛𐑸𐑒𐑯𐑩𐑕, 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑥𐑻𐑕𐑦 𐑪𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒 𐑚𐑶 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑣𐑽; 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑻𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑷𐑤 𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑯𐑴 𐑚𐑬𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑑 𐑓𐑰𐑤 𐑓𐑽!</p>
  </body>
</html>
