<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Chapter 112</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="chapter-112" xml:lang="en-US">
      <h2 id="chapterheader-112">·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 112. 𐑞 ·𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒𐑕𐑥𐑦𐑔.</h2>
    </div>
    <p>𐑩𐑝𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑝 𐑞 𐑥𐑲𐑤𐑛, 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑼-𐑒𐑵𐑤 𐑢𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑯𐑬 𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑤𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛𐑟, 𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑐𐑼𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑓 𐑞 𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑽𐑤𐑦 𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑦𐑝 𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑿𐑑𐑕 𐑖𐑹𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑕𐑦𐑐𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛, ·𐑐𐑻𐑔, 𐑞 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑮𐑲𐑥𐑛, 𐑚𐑤𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑛 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒𐑕𐑥𐑦𐑔, 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑵𐑝𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑹𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑓𐑹𐑡 𐑑 𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯, 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑵𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑚𐑿𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑢𐑻𐑒 𐑓 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚'𐑟 𐑤𐑧𐑜, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑛𐑧𐑒, 𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑤𐑨𐑖𐑑 𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑙𐑚𐑴𐑤𐑑𐑕 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑; 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑯𐑬 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑴𐑒𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑟𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑯 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽𐑟, 𐑯 𐑚𐑬𐑟𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑑 𐑛𐑵 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑡𐑪𐑚 𐑓 𐑞𐑧𐑥; 𐑷𐑤𐑑𐑼𐑦𐑙, 𐑹 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑺𐑦𐑙, 𐑹 𐑯𐑿 𐑖𐑱𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑺 𐑝𐑺𐑾𐑕 𐑢𐑧𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑯 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑓𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑗𐑼. 𐑪𐑓𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑚𐑰 𐑕𐑼𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑩𐑯 𐑰𐑜𐑼 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑤, 𐑷𐑤 𐑢𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑕𐑻𐑝𐑛; 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑴𐑑-𐑕𐑐𐑱𐑛𐑟, 𐑐𐑲𐑒-𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑟, 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑟, 𐑯 𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟, 𐑯 𐑡𐑧𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑪𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑕𐑫𐑑𐑦 𐑥𐑵𐑝𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑, 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑑𐑶𐑤𐑛. 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑞𐑩𐑤𐑧𐑕, 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑥𐑨𐑯'𐑟 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑐𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑥𐑼 𐑢𐑰𐑤𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑩 𐑐𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑸𐑥. 𐑯𐑴 𐑥𐑻𐑥𐑼, 𐑯𐑴 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑕, 𐑯𐑴 𐑐𐑧𐑑𐑿𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑥. 𐑕𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑑, 𐑕𐑤𐑴, 𐑯 𐑕𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑥; 𐑚𐑬𐑦𐑙 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑓𐑻𐑞𐑼 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑮𐑪𐑯𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑮𐑴𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑚𐑨𐑒, 𐑣𐑰 𐑑𐑶𐑤𐑛 𐑩𐑢𐑱, 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑓 𐑑𐑶𐑤 𐑢𐑻 𐑤𐑲𐑓 𐑦𐑑𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑣𐑧𐑝𐑦 𐑚𐑰𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑥𐑼 𐑞 𐑣𐑧𐑝𐑦 𐑚𐑰𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑸𐑑. 𐑯 𐑕𐑴 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟.—𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑦𐑟𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤!</p>
    <p>𐑩 𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑽 𐑢𐑷𐑒 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑥𐑨𐑯, 𐑩 𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑕𐑤𐑲𐑑 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑐𐑱𐑯𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑩𐑐𐑽𐑦𐑙 𐑘𐑷𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑜𐑱𐑑, 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑩𐑯 𐑻𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑽𐑾𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑞 𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑦𐑪𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑯𐑼𐑟. 𐑯 𐑑 𐑞 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑼𐑑𐑿𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑞𐑺 𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑕𐑗𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑜𐑦𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯; 𐑯 𐑕𐑴 𐑦𐑑 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑑 𐑐𐑭𐑕 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑯𐑬 𐑯𐑿 𐑞 𐑖𐑱𐑥𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑦 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑮𐑧𐑗𐑩𐑛 𐑓𐑱𐑑.</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑯 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦, 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑼 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼'𐑟 𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑯𐑲𐑑, 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑮𐑴𐑛 𐑮𐑳𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑢𐑰𐑯 𐑑𐑵 𐑒𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑦 𐑑𐑬𐑯𐑟, 𐑞 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒𐑕𐑥𐑦𐑔 𐑣𐑭𐑓-𐑕𐑑𐑵𐑐𐑦𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑧𐑤𐑑 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑯𐑳𐑥𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑯 𐑕𐑷𐑑 𐑮𐑧𐑓𐑿𐑡 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑤𐑰𐑯𐑦𐑙, 𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑨𐑐𐑦𐑛𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑸𐑯. 𐑞 𐑦𐑖𐑿 𐑢𐑪𐑟, 𐑞 𐑤𐑪𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑥𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑟 𐑝 𐑚𐑴𐑔 𐑓𐑰𐑑. 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑮𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑐𐑸𐑑, 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑬𐑑 𐑞 𐑓𐑹 𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑜𐑤𐑨𐑛𐑯𐑩𐑕, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑤𐑪𐑙, 𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑳𐑯𐑒𐑩𐑑𐑨𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑓𐑦𐑦𐑛 𐑓𐑦𐑓𐑔 𐑨𐑒𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑓 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑲𐑓'𐑕 𐑛𐑮𐑭𐑥𐑩.</p>
    <p>𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩𐑯 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑥𐑨𐑯, 𐑣𐑵, 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑱𐑡 𐑝 𐑯𐑽𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑦, 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑐𐑴𐑕𐑑𐑐𐑴𐑯𐑩𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑪𐑮𐑴'𐑟 𐑑𐑧𐑒𐑯𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛 𐑮𐑵𐑦𐑯. 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑩𐑯 𐑸𐑑𐑦𐑟𐑨𐑯 𐑝 𐑓𐑱𐑥𐑛 𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑕, 𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑐𐑤𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑦 𐑑 𐑛𐑵; 𐑴𐑯𐑛 𐑩 𐑣𐑬𐑕 𐑯 𐑜𐑸𐑛𐑩𐑯; 𐑦𐑥𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑕𐑑 𐑩 𐑿𐑔𐑓𐑩𐑤, 𐑛𐑷𐑑𐑼-𐑤𐑲𐑒, 𐑤𐑳𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑲𐑓, 𐑯 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑚𐑤𐑲𐑞, 𐑮𐑳𐑛𐑦 𐑗𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑯; 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑕𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑱 𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑑 𐑩 𐑗𐑽𐑓𐑩𐑤-𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑗𐑻𐑗, 𐑐𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑜𐑮𐑴𐑝. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑯𐑲𐑑, 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑒𐑳𐑝𐑼 𐑝 𐑛𐑸𐑒𐑯𐑩𐑕, 𐑯 𐑓𐑻𐑞𐑼 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑰𐑤𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑒𐑳𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑜𐑲𐑟𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑, 𐑩 𐑛𐑧𐑕𐑐𐑼𐑩𐑑 𐑚𐑻𐑜𐑩𐑤𐑼 𐑕𐑤𐑦𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑦 𐑣𐑴𐑥, 𐑯 𐑮𐑪𐑚𐑛 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑷𐑤 𐑝 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦𐑔𐑦𐑙. 𐑯 𐑛𐑸𐑒𐑼 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑑 𐑑𐑧𐑤, 𐑞 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒𐑕𐑥𐑦𐑔 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑳𐑒𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑚𐑻𐑜𐑩𐑤𐑼 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑨𐑥𐑤𐑦'𐑟 𐑣𐑸𐑑. 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 ·𐑚𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑤 ·𐑒𐑳𐑯𐑡𐑼𐑼! 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑴𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑓𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑹𐑒, 𐑓𐑹𐑔 𐑓𐑤𐑵 𐑞 𐑓𐑰𐑯𐑛, 𐑯 𐑖𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑳𐑐 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑴𐑥. 𐑯𐑬, 𐑓 𐑐𐑮𐑵𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑, 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑲𐑟, 𐑯 𐑰𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑪𐑥𐑦𐑒 𐑮𐑰𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑟, 𐑞 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒𐑕𐑥𐑦𐑔'𐑕 𐑖𐑪𐑐 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑱𐑕𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑢𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑙, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑕𐑧𐑐𐑼𐑩𐑑 𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑑 𐑦𐑑; 𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤𐑢𐑱𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑞 𐑘𐑳𐑙 𐑯 𐑤𐑳𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑔𐑦 𐑢𐑲𐑓 𐑤𐑦𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑯𐑴 𐑳𐑯𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑦 𐑯𐑻𐑝𐑩𐑕𐑯𐑩𐑕, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑝𐑦𐑜𐑼𐑩𐑕 𐑐𐑤𐑧𐑠𐑼, 𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑬𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑙𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑣𐑻 𐑘𐑳𐑙-𐑸𐑥𐑛 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑣𐑳𐑟𐑚𐑩𐑯𐑛'𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑥𐑼; 𐑣𐑵𐑟 𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑻𐑚𐑼𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟, 𐑥𐑳𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑐𐑭𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑞 𐑓𐑤𐑹𐑟 𐑯 𐑢𐑷𐑤𐑟, 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑳𐑐 𐑑 𐑣𐑻, 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑳𐑯𐑕𐑢𐑰𐑑𐑤𐑦, 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑻 𐑯𐑻𐑕𐑼𐑦; 𐑯 𐑕𐑴, 𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑬𐑑 ·𐑤𐑱𐑚𐑼'𐑟 𐑲𐑼𐑯 𐑤𐑳𐑤𐑩𐑚𐑲, 𐑞 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒𐑕𐑥𐑦𐑔'𐑕 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑢𐑻 𐑮𐑪𐑒𐑑 𐑑 𐑕𐑤𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑼.</p>
    <p>𐑴, 𐑢𐑴 𐑪𐑯 𐑢𐑴! 𐑴, ·𐑛𐑧𐑔, 𐑢𐑲 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑬 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑚𐑰 𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑤𐑦? 𐑣𐑨𐑛𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑬 𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒𐑕𐑥𐑦𐑔 𐑑 𐑞𐑲𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑺 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑫𐑤 𐑮𐑵𐑦𐑯 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑞 𐑘𐑳𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑛𐑴 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑩 𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑕 𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑓, 𐑯 𐑣𐑻 𐑹𐑓𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑩 𐑑𐑮𐑵𐑤𐑦 𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤, 𐑤𐑧𐑡𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑦 𐑕𐑲𐑼 𐑑 𐑛𐑮𐑰𐑥 𐑝 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑘𐑽𐑟; 𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑝 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑩 𐑒𐑺-𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑐𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 ·𐑛𐑧𐑔 𐑐𐑤𐑳𐑒𐑑 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑝𐑻𐑗𐑵𐑩𐑕 𐑧𐑤𐑛𐑼 𐑚𐑮𐑳𐑞𐑼, 𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑵𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑛𐑱𐑤𐑦 𐑑𐑶𐑤 𐑕𐑴𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑳𐑙 𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑟 𐑝 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑓𐑨𐑥𐑤𐑦, 𐑯 𐑤𐑧𐑓𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑕 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑿𐑕𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙, 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑛𐑾𐑕 𐑮𐑪𐑑 𐑝 𐑤𐑲𐑓 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑰𐑟𐑽 𐑑 𐑣𐑸𐑝𐑦𐑕𐑑.</p>
    <p>𐑢𐑲 𐑑𐑧𐑤 𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑤? 𐑞 𐑚𐑤𐑴𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑱𐑕𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑥𐑼 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑛𐑱 𐑜𐑮𐑵 𐑥𐑹 𐑯 𐑥𐑹 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑢𐑰𐑯; 𐑯 𐑰𐑗 𐑚𐑤𐑴 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑛𐑱 𐑜𐑮𐑵 𐑓𐑱𐑯𐑑𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑞 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑; 𐑞 𐑢𐑲𐑓 𐑕𐑨𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑴𐑟𐑩𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑴, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑑𐑽𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑲𐑟, 𐑜𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑼𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑜𐑱𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑢𐑰𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑝 𐑣𐑻 𐑗𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑯; 𐑞 𐑚𐑧𐑤𐑴𐑟 𐑓𐑧𐑤; 𐑞 𐑓𐑹𐑡 𐑗𐑴𐑒𐑑 𐑳𐑐 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑟; 𐑞 𐑣𐑬𐑕 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑴𐑤𐑛; 𐑞 𐑥𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑛𐑲𐑝𐑛 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑗𐑻𐑗-𐑘𐑸𐑛 𐑜𐑮𐑭𐑕; 𐑣𐑻 𐑗𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑯 𐑑𐑢𐑲𐑕 𐑓𐑪𐑤𐑴𐑛 𐑣𐑻 𐑞𐑦𐑞𐑼; 𐑯 𐑞 𐑙𐑬𐑟𐑤𐑧𐑕, 𐑓𐑩𐑥𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑜𐑼𐑛 𐑪𐑓 𐑩 𐑝𐑨𐑜𐑩𐑚𐑪𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑒𐑮𐑱𐑐; 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑢𐑴 𐑳𐑯𐑮𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑑; 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑜𐑮𐑱 𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑩 𐑕𐑒𐑹𐑯 𐑑 𐑓𐑤𐑨𐑒𐑕𐑩𐑯 𐑒𐑻𐑤𐑟!</p>
    <p>𐑛𐑧𐑔 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑟 𐑞 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑟𐑲𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑩𐑤 𐑓 𐑩 𐑒𐑼𐑽 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞𐑦𐑕; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 ·𐑛𐑧𐑔 𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑩 𐑤𐑷𐑯𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑮𐑰𐑡𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡 ·𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑛; 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑨𐑤𐑿𐑑𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑑 𐑞 𐑐𐑪𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑦𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑕 ·𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑴𐑑, 𐑞 ·𐑢𐑲𐑤𐑛, 𐑞 ·𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼𐑦, 𐑞 ·𐑳𐑯𐑖𐑹𐑛; 𐑞𐑺𐑓𐑹, 𐑑 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑔-𐑤𐑪𐑙𐑦𐑙 𐑲𐑟 𐑝 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑣𐑵 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑤𐑧𐑓𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑽𐑽 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑳𐑙𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑵𐑦𐑕𐑲𐑛, 𐑛𐑳𐑟 𐑞 𐑷𐑤-𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑚𐑿𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑯 𐑷𐑤-𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑧𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑝 𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑩𐑤𐑫𐑼𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑛 𐑓𐑹𐑔 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯 𐑝 𐑳𐑯𐑦𐑥𐑨𐑡𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤, 𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑑𐑧𐑮𐑼𐑟, 𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑓𐑩𐑤, 𐑯𐑿-𐑤𐑲𐑓 𐑩𐑛𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑗𐑼𐑟; 𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑣𐑸𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑑 ·𐑐𐑩𐑕𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒𐑕, 𐑞 𐑔𐑬𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑥𐑻𐑥𐑱𐑛𐑟 𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑥—“𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑞𐑼, 𐑚𐑮𐑴𐑒𐑩𐑯-𐑣𐑸𐑑𐑩𐑛; 𐑣𐑽 𐑦𐑟 𐑩𐑯𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑤𐑲𐑓 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑 𐑞 𐑜𐑦𐑤𐑑 𐑝 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑥𐑰𐑛𐑾𐑑 𐑛𐑧𐑔; 𐑣𐑽 𐑸 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑟 𐑕𐑵𐑐𐑼𐑯𐑨𐑗𐑼𐑩𐑤, 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑 𐑛𐑲𐑦𐑙 𐑓 𐑞𐑧𐑥. 𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑞𐑼! 𐑚𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑞𐑲𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑤𐑲𐑓 𐑢𐑦𐑗, 𐑑 𐑘𐑹 𐑯𐑬 𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑚𐑣𐑹𐑛 𐑯 𐑩𐑚𐑣𐑹𐑦𐑙, 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛, 𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑹 𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑾𐑕 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑛𐑧𐑔. 𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑞𐑼! 𐑐𐑫𐑑 𐑳𐑐 <i>𐑞𐑲</i> 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑝𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑯, 𐑑𐑵, 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑗𐑻𐑗𐑘𐑸𐑛, 𐑯 𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑞𐑼, 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑢𐑰 𐑥𐑨𐑮𐑦 𐑞𐑰!”</p>
    <p>𐑣𐑸𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑝𐑶𐑕𐑩𐑟, ·𐑰𐑕𐑑 𐑯 ·𐑢𐑧𐑕𐑑, 𐑚𐑲 𐑻𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑳𐑯𐑮𐑲𐑟, 𐑯 𐑚𐑲 𐑓𐑷𐑤 𐑝 𐑰𐑝, 𐑞 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒𐑕𐑥𐑦𐑔'𐑕 𐑕𐑴𐑤 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑪𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛, ·𐑲, 𐑲 𐑒𐑳𐑥! 𐑯 𐑕𐑴 ·𐑐𐑻𐑔 𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑩-𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙.</p>
  </body>
</html>
