<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Chapter 77</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="chapter-77" xml:lang="en-US">
      <h2 id="chapterheader-77">·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 77. 𐑞 ·𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 ·𐑣𐑲𐑛𐑩𐑤𐑚𐑼𐑩 ·𐑑𐑳𐑯.</h2>
    </div>
    <p>𐑯𐑬 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑟 𐑞 ·𐑚𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑱𐑕. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑑 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑣𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑼𐑲𐑑, 𐑿 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑯𐑴 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑞 𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑾𐑕 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑒𐑗𐑼 𐑝 𐑞 𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑐𐑼𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯.</p>
    <p>𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑸𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤'𐑟 𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑕𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑛 𐑪𐑚𐑤𐑪𐑙, 𐑿 𐑥𐑱, 𐑪𐑯 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯, 𐑕𐑲𐑛𐑢𐑱𐑟 𐑛𐑦𐑝𐑲𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑑𐑵 𐑒𐑶𐑯𐑟,* 𐑢𐑺𐑪𐑝 𐑞 𐑤𐑴𐑼 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑯𐑦 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑒𐑗𐑼, 𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑾𐑥 𐑯 𐑡𐑷𐑟, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑳𐑐𐑼 𐑩𐑯 𐑳𐑙𐑒𐑗𐑵𐑩𐑕 𐑥𐑨𐑕 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑮𐑰 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑚𐑴𐑯𐑟; 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑚𐑮𐑷𐑛 𐑓𐑹𐑢𐑼𐑛 𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑝𐑻𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑩𐑐𐑨𐑮𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑓𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤. 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑞 𐑓𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑛 𐑣𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑳𐑚𐑛𐑦𐑝𐑲𐑛 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑳𐑐𐑼 𐑒𐑶𐑯, 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑿 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑑𐑵 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑩𐑤 𐑐𐑸𐑑𐑕, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑢𐑻 𐑯𐑨𐑗𐑼𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑝𐑲𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑷𐑤 𐑝 𐑩 𐑔𐑦𐑒 𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑕𐑳𐑚𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕.</p>
    <p>*𐑒𐑶𐑯 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑩 ·𐑿𐑒𐑤𐑦𐑛𐑾𐑯 𐑑𐑻𐑥. 𐑦𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑪𐑙𐑟 𐑑 𐑞 𐑐𐑘𐑫𐑼 𐑯𐑷𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑥𐑨𐑔𐑩𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑕. 𐑲 𐑯𐑴 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹. 𐑩 𐑒𐑶𐑯 𐑦𐑟 𐑩 𐑕𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑼𐑟 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑩 𐑢𐑧𐑡 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑖𐑸𐑐 𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑐 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑦𐑯𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑕𐑲𐑛, 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 𐑥𐑿𐑗𐑵𐑩𐑤 𐑑𐑱𐑐𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑚𐑴𐑔 𐑕𐑲𐑛𐑟.</p>
    <p>𐑞 𐑤𐑴𐑼 𐑕𐑳𐑚𐑛𐑦𐑝𐑲𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑐𐑸𐑑, 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛 𐑞 𐑡𐑳𐑙𐑒, 𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑦𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑕 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑦𐑒𐑴𐑥 𐑝 𐑶𐑤, 𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑪𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑯 𐑮𐑰𐑒𐑮𐑪𐑕𐑦𐑙, 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑑𐑧𐑯 𐑔𐑬𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑦𐑤𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑟, 𐑝 𐑑𐑳𐑓 𐑦𐑤𐑨𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑓𐑲𐑚𐑼𐑟 𐑔𐑮𐑵𐑬𐑑 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑑. 𐑞 𐑳𐑐𐑼 𐑐𐑸𐑑, 𐑯𐑴𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑱𐑕, 𐑥𐑱 𐑚𐑰 𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑸𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 ·𐑣𐑲𐑛𐑩𐑤𐑚𐑼𐑩 ·𐑑𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤. 𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑓𐑱𐑥𐑩𐑕 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑑𐑽𐑕 𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑸𐑝𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑳𐑯𐑑, 𐑕𐑴 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤'𐑟 𐑝𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑐𐑤𐑨𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑓𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑛 𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑿𐑥𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡 𐑛𐑦𐑝𐑲𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑓 𐑞 𐑧𐑥𐑚𐑤𐑩𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑩𐑛𐑹𐑯𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑕 𐑑𐑳𐑯. 𐑥𐑹𐑴𐑝𐑼, 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑝 ·𐑣𐑲𐑛𐑩𐑤𐑚𐑼𐑩 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑷𐑤𐑢𐑱𐑟 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑤𐑧𐑯𐑦𐑖𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑲𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑮𐑧𐑯𐑦𐑖 𐑝𐑨𐑤𐑦𐑟, 𐑕𐑴 𐑞 𐑑𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑱𐑯𐑟 𐑚𐑲 𐑓𐑸 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑶𐑤𐑦 𐑝𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑟; 𐑯𐑱𐑥𐑤𐑦, 𐑞 𐑣𐑲𐑤𐑦-𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑟𐑛 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥𐑩𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑦, 𐑦𐑯 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑨𐑚𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑵𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑘𐑫𐑼, 𐑤𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑦𐑛, 𐑯 𐑴𐑛𐑼𐑦𐑓𐑼𐑩𐑕 𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑑. 𐑯𐑹 𐑦𐑟 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑕 𐑕𐑳𐑚𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑳𐑯𐑩𐑤𐑶𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑗𐑼. 𐑞𐑴 𐑦𐑯 𐑤𐑲𐑓 𐑦𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑟 𐑐𐑻𐑓𐑦𐑒𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑤𐑵𐑦𐑛, 𐑘𐑧𐑑, 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑴𐑠𐑼 𐑑 𐑞 𐑺, 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑛𐑧𐑔, 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑵𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑦𐑯𐑟 𐑑 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑑; 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑹𐑔 𐑚𐑿𐑑𐑦𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑲𐑯 𐑖𐑵𐑑𐑕, 𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑔𐑦𐑯 𐑛𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑑 𐑲𐑕 𐑦𐑟 𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼. 𐑩 𐑤𐑸𐑡 𐑢𐑱𐑤'𐑟 𐑒𐑱𐑕 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑘𐑰𐑤𐑛𐑟 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑓𐑲𐑝 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑛 𐑜𐑨𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥, 𐑞𐑴 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑳𐑯𐑩𐑝𐑶𐑛𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟, 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑤𐑛, 𐑤𐑰𐑒𐑕, 𐑯 𐑛𐑮𐑦𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑩𐑢𐑱, 𐑹 𐑦𐑟 𐑳𐑞𐑼𐑢𐑲𐑟 𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑒𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑪𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑖 𐑚𐑦𐑟𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑿 𐑒𐑨𐑯.</p>
    <p>𐑲 𐑯𐑴 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑓𐑲𐑯 𐑯 𐑒𐑪𐑕𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑥𐑩𐑑𐑽𐑾𐑤 𐑞 ·𐑣𐑲𐑛𐑩𐑤𐑚𐑼𐑩 ·𐑑𐑳𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑒𐑴𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑦𐑯, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑵𐑐𐑻𐑤𐑩𐑑𐑦𐑝 𐑮𐑦𐑗𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑒𐑴𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑐𐑪𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑺𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑕𐑦𐑤𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑐𐑻𐑤-𐑒𐑳𐑤𐑼𐑛 𐑥𐑧𐑥𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑯, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞 𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑩 𐑓𐑲𐑯 𐑐𐑧𐑤𐑰𐑕, 𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑼 𐑕𐑻𐑓𐑦𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤'𐑟 𐑒𐑱𐑕.</p>
    <p>𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑕𐑰𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑣𐑲𐑛𐑩𐑤𐑚𐑼𐑩 ·𐑑𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑦𐑥𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑲𐑼 𐑤𐑧𐑙𐑔 𐑝 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑲𐑼 𐑑𐑪𐑐 𐑝 𐑞 𐑣𐑧𐑛; 𐑯 𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑕—𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑧𐑤𐑕𐑢𐑺 𐑕𐑧𐑑 𐑓𐑹𐑔—𐑞 𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑦𐑥𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑔𐑻𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑤𐑧𐑙𐑔 𐑝 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑗𐑼, 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑧𐑙𐑔 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑱𐑑𐑦 𐑓𐑰𐑑 𐑓 𐑩 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑕𐑲𐑟𐑛 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑿 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑥𐑹 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑑𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑦-𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑕 𐑓𐑰𐑑 𐑓 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑐𐑔 𐑝 𐑞 𐑑𐑳𐑯, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑧𐑙𐑔𐑢𐑲𐑟 𐑣𐑶𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑳𐑐 𐑯 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑩 𐑖𐑦𐑐'𐑕 𐑕𐑲𐑛.</p>
    <p>𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑦𐑑𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑞 𐑪𐑐𐑼𐑱𐑑𐑼'𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑮𐑷𐑑 𐑒𐑤𐑴𐑕 𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑐𐑪𐑑 𐑢𐑺 𐑩𐑯 𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑚𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑢𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑹𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥𐑩𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑦 𐑥𐑨𐑜𐑩𐑟𐑰𐑯; 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑟, 𐑞𐑺𐑓𐑹, 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑳𐑯𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑰𐑛𐑓𐑩𐑤, 𐑤𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑩 𐑒𐑺𐑤𐑩𐑕, 𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑴𐑒 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑱𐑛 𐑞 𐑕𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑗𐑵𐑼𐑦 𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑬𐑑 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑨𐑤𐑿𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑕. 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑦𐑑𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 𐑣𐑧𐑛, 𐑷𐑤𐑕𐑴, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑦𐑟 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼, 𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑐𐑩𐑟𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑹𐑥𐑩𐑕 𐑒𐑳𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑑𐑨𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑟, 𐑣𐑵𐑟 𐑣𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑯 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑚𐑦𐑯𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟, 𐑪𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑕𐑲𐑛, 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑩 𐑢𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑼𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑮𐑴𐑐𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑒𐑢𐑹𐑑𐑼.</p>
    <p>𐑞𐑳𐑕 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑧𐑛, 𐑩𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑯𐑬, 𐑲 𐑐𐑮𐑱 𐑿, 𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑸𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑯—𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑐𐑼𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑼 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕—𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑓𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑪𐑐𐑼𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑺𐑚𐑲 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤'𐑟 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 ·𐑣𐑲𐑛𐑩𐑤𐑚𐑼𐑩 ·𐑑𐑳𐑯 𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑨𐑐𐑑.</p>
  </body>
</html>
