<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Chapter 64</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="chapter-64" xml:lang="en-US">
      <h2 id="chapterheader-64">·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 64. 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚'𐑟 ·𐑕𐑳𐑐𐑼.</h2>
    </div>
    <p>𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚'𐑟 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑛 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐. 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑒𐑭𐑥; 𐑕𐑴, 𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑥 𐑝 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕, 𐑢𐑰 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑤𐑴 𐑚𐑦𐑟𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑑𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑑𐑮𐑴𐑓𐑦 𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛. 𐑯 𐑯𐑬, 𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑰 𐑱𐑑𐑰𐑯 𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑬𐑼 𐑔𐑻𐑑𐑦-𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑕 𐑸𐑥𐑟, 𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑛 𐑯 𐑱𐑑𐑦 𐑔𐑳𐑥𐑟 𐑯 𐑓𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑼𐑟, 𐑕𐑤𐑴𐑤𐑦 𐑑𐑶𐑤𐑛 𐑬𐑼 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑬𐑼 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑻𐑑, 𐑕𐑤𐑳𐑜𐑦𐑖 𐑒𐑹𐑐𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑰; 𐑯 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑣𐑸𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑑 𐑚𐑳𐑡 𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤, 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑧𐑐𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑟; 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑧𐑝𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑣𐑽𐑚𐑲 𐑓𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑖𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑹𐑥𐑩𐑕𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑕 𐑢𐑰 𐑥𐑵𐑝𐑛. 𐑓, 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑨𐑤 𐑝 ·𐑣𐑨𐑙-·𐑣𐑴, 𐑹 𐑢𐑪𐑑𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑞𐑱 𐑒𐑷𐑤 𐑦𐑑, 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑗𐑲𐑯𐑩, 𐑓𐑹 𐑹 𐑓𐑲𐑝 𐑤𐑱𐑚𐑼𐑼𐑟 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑫𐑑-𐑐𐑭𐑔 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑛𐑮𐑷 𐑩 𐑚𐑳𐑤𐑒𐑦 𐑓𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑡𐑳𐑙𐑒 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑝 𐑩 𐑥𐑲𐑤 𐑩𐑯 𐑬𐑼; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑜𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑸𐑜𐑩𐑕𐑦 𐑢𐑰 𐑑𐑴𐑛 𐑣𐑧𐑝𐑦𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑹𐑡𐑛 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙, 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑓 𐑤𐑱𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑐𐑦𐑜-𐑤𐑧𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑚𐑳𐑤𐑒.</p>
    <p>𐑛𐑸𐑒𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑪𐑯; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑕 𐑳𐑐 𐑯 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛'𐑟 𐑥𐑱𐑯-𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑦𐑙 𐑛𐑦𐑥𐑤𐑦 𐑜𐑲𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑬𐑼 𐑢𐑱; 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑛𐑮𐑷𐑦𐑙 𐑯𐑽𐑼 𐑢𐑰 𐑕𐑷 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑛𐑮𐑪𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑕𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑥𐑹 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑯𐑟 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 𐑚𐑫𐑤𐑢𐑼𐑒𐑕. 𐑝𐑱𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑲𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑣𐑰𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑓 𐑩 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑, 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑖𐑿𐑛 𐑞 𐑿𐑠𐑵𐑩𐑤 𐑹𐑛𐑼𐑟 𐑓 𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑑 𐑓 𐑞 𐑯𐑲𐑑, 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑯 𐑑 𐑩 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑩𐑯, 𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑱 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑚𐑦𐑯, 𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑓𐑹𐑢𐑼𐑛 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯 𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑥𐑹𐑯𐑦𐑙.</p>
    <p>𐑞𐑴, 𐑦𐑯 𐑴𐑝𐑼𐑕𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑿𐑑 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑱𐑤, ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑳𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑥𐑼𐑦 𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑑𐑦, 𐑑 𐑒𐑷𐑤 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑴; 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑯𐑬 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑗𐑼 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑛𐑧𐑛, 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑝𐑱𐑜 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑕𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑕𐑓𐑨𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑹 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑕, 𐑹 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑺, 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑢𐑻𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥; 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑓 𐑞 𐑕𐑲𐑑 𐑝 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑛𐑧𐑛 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑞𐑨𐑑 ·𐑥𐑪𐑚𐑦 ·𐑛𐑦𐑒 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑕𐑤𐑱𐑯; 𐑯 𐑞𐑴 𐑩 𐑔𐑬𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑚𐑮𐑷𐑑 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑖𐑦𐑐, 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑡𐑪𐑑 𐑩𐑛𐑝𐑭𐑯𐑕 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑜𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑛, 𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑩𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑦𐑨𐑒 𐑪𐑚𐑡𐑧𐑒𐑑. 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑕𐑵𐑯 𐑿 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑔𐑷𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑕𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑛'𐑟 𐑛𐑧𐑒𐑕, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑺𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑒𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑛𐑰𐑐; 𐑓 𐑣𐑧𐑝𐑦 𐑗𐑱𐑯𐑟 𐑸 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑛𐑮𐑨𐑜𐑛 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑒, 𐑯 𐑔𐑮𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑮𐑨𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑐𐑹𐑑-𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑟. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑒𐑤𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑕, 𐑞 𐑝𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑒𐑹𐑐𐑕 𐑦𐑑𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓, 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐, 𐑦𐑟 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑥𐑫𐑼𐑛. 𐑑𐑲𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑻𐑯, 𐑯 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑑𐑱𐑤 𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑬𐑟, 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑯𐑬 𐑤𐑲𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒 𐑣𐑳𐑤 𐑒𐑤𐑴𐑟 𐑑 𐑞 𐑝𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑤'𐑟 𐑯 𐑕𐑰𐑯 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑞 𐑛𐑸𐑒𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑯𐑲𐑑, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑩𐑚𐑕𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑛 𐑞 𐑕𐑐𐑸𐑟 𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑓𐑑, 𐑞 𐑑𐑵—𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑘𐑴𐑒𐑑 𐑑𐑩𐑜𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑕𐑩𐑤 𐑚𐑫𐑤𐑩𐑒𐑕, 𐑢𐑺𐑪𐑝 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑟 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙.*</p>
    <p>*𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑥 𐑥𐑱 𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑚𐑰 𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑽. 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑪𐑙𐑜𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑯 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑲𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑥𐑫𐑼𐑛 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙𐑕𐑲𐑛, 𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑓𐑤𐑵𐑒𐑕 𐑹 𐑑𐑱𐑤; 𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑼 𐑛𐑧𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑮𐑧𐑤𐑩𐑑𐑦𐑝𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑧𐑝𐑽 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑳𐑞𐑼 (𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑧𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑕𐑲𐑛-𐑓𐑦𐑯𐑟), 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑓𐑤𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑛𐑧𐑔, 𐑒𐑷𐑟𐑩𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑑 𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑤𐑴 𐑚𐑦𐑯𐑰𐑔 𐑞 𐑕𐑻𐑓𐑦𐑕; 𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑿 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑜𐑧𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑, 𐑦𐑯 𐑹𐑛𐑼 𐑑 𐑐𐑫𐑑 𐑞 𐑗𐑱𐑯 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑑. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒𐑳𐑤𐑑𐑦 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑡𐑰𐑯𐑾𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑴𐑝𐑼𐑒𐑳𐑥: 𐑩 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤, 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑪𐑙 𐑤𐑲𐑯 𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑺𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑢𐑫𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑓𐑤𐑴𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑬𐑑𐑼 𐑧𐑯𐑛, 𐑯 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑤, 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑛 𐑑 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐. 𐑚𐑲 𐑩𐑛𐑮𐑶𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑡𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑫𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑓𐑤𐑴𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑑 𐑮𐑲𐑟 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑕, 𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑯𐑬 𐑣𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑜𐑻𐑛𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑞 𐑗𐑱𐑯 𐑦𐑟 𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑦 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑑 𐑓𐑪𐑤𐑴 𐑕𐑵𐑑; 𐑯 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑤𐑦𐑐𐑑 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑞 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦, 𐑦𐑟 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑤𐑪𐑒𐑑 𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑑𐑱𐑤, 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑡𐑳𐑙𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑚𐑮𐑷𐑛 𐑓𐑤𐑵𐑒𐑕 𐑹 𐑤𐑴𐑚𐑟.</p>
    <p>𐑦𐑓 𐑥𐑵𐑛𐑦 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑬 𐑷𐑤 𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑕, 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑰𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑴 𐑓𐑸 𐑨𐑟 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑚𐑰 𐑯𐑴𐑯 𐑪𐑯 𐑛𐑧𐑒, ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚, 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑧𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑥𐑱𐑑, 𐑓𐑤𐑳𐑖𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑒𐑪𐑙𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑕𐑑, 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑛 𐑩𐑯 𐑳𐑯𐑿𐑠𐑵𐑩𐑤 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑜𐑫𐑛-𐑯𐑱𐑗𐑼𐑛 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑲𐑑𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑. 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩𐑯 𐑳𐑯𐑢𐑴𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑳𐑕𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒, 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑩𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑵𐑐𐑽𐑽, 𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑩𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑓 𐑞 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑞 𐑕𐑴𐑤 𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑡𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑩𐑓𐑺𐑟. 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤, 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑷𐑟 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑤𐑲𐑝𐑤𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑵𐑯 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑤𐑦 𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑓𐑧𐑕𐑑. 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑣𐑲 𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑼; 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑼𐑩𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑪𐑯𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑓𐑤𐑱𐑝𐑼𐑦𐑖 𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑨𐑤𐑩𐑑.</p>
    <p>“𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑒, 𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑒, 𐑺 𐑲 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐! 𐑿, ·𐑛𐑨𐑜𐑵! 𐑴𐑝𐑼𐑚𐑹𐑛 𐑿 𐑜𐑴, 𐑯 𐑒𐑳𐑑 𐑥𐑰 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤!”</p>
    <p>𐑣𐑽 𐑚𐑰 𐑦𐑑 𐑯𐑴𐑯, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑴 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑢𐑲𐑤𐑛 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑛𐑵 𐑯𐑪𐑑, 𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑔𐑦𐑙, 𐑯 𐑩𐑒𐑹𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑥𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑺𐑦 𐑥𐑨𐑒𐑕𐑦𐑥, 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑞 𐑧𐑯𐑩𐑥𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑮𐑱 𐑞 𐑒𐑳𐑮𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑹 (𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑰𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑮𐑾𐑤𐑲𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑕𐑰𐑛𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡), 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑯𐑬 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑿 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑝 𐑞𐑰𐑟 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑣𐑵 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑩 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑿𐑦𐑯 𐑮𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑖 𐑓 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑐𐑼𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑼 𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑛𐑧𐑟𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚; 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑑𐑱𐑐𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑥𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦.</p>
    <p>𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑯𐑲𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑒𐑳𐑑 𐑯 𐑒𐑫𐑒𐑑; 𐑯 𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑑𐑵 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 𐑶𐑤, ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚 𐑕𐑑𐑬𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑑𐑫𐑛 𐑳𐑐 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥𐑩𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑦 𐑕𐑳𐑐𐑼 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯-𐑣𐑧𐑛, 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑓 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑻 𐑩 𐑕𐑲𐑛𐑚𐑹𐑛. 𐑯𐑹 𐑢𐑪𐑟 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚 𐑞 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑢𐑩𐑑𐑼 𐑪𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑤'𐑟 𐑓𐑤𐑧𐑖 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑯𐑲𐑑. 𐑥𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑺 𐑥𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯 𐑥𐑨𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟, 𐑔𐑬𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑪𐑯 𐑔𐑬𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑝 𐑖𐑸𐑒𐑕, 𐑕𐑢𐑹𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑛 𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯, 𐑕𐑥𐑨𐑒𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑰𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑪𐑯 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑓𐑨𐑑𐑯𐑩𐑕. 𐑞 𐑓𐑿 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐𐑼𐑟 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑴 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑚𐑳𐑙𐑒𐑕 𐑢𐑻 𐑪𐑓𐑩𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑖𐑸𐑐 𐑕𐑤𐑨𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑞𐑺 𐑑𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑞 𐑣𐑳𐑤, 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑓𐑿 𐑦𐑯𐑗𐑩𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐𐑼𐑟' 𐑣𐑸𐑑𐑕. 𐑐𐑽𐑦𐑙 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑿 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑰 𐑞𐑧𐑥 (𐑨𐑟 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑿 𐑣𐑻𐑛 𐑞𐑧𐑥) 𐑢𐑪𐑤𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑤𐑩𐑯, 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼𐑟, 𐑯 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑪𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑚𐑨𐑒𐑕 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑱 𐑕𐑒𐑵𐑐𐑑 𐑬𐑑 𐑣𐑿𐑡 𐑜𐑤𐑪𐑚𐑿𐑤𐑼 𐑐𐑰𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑩 𐑣𐑿𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑧𐑛. 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑐𐑼𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑼 𐑓𐑰𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑖𐑸𐑒 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑟 𐑷𐑤 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑥𐑦𐑮𐑨𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑩𐑕. 𐑣𐑬 𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩𐑯 𐑩𐑐𐑨𐑮𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑳𐑯𐑩𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑻𐑓𐑦𐑕, 𐑞𐑱 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑝 𐑑 𐑜𐑬𐑡 𐑬𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑧𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑥𐑬𐑔𐑓𐑫𐑤𐑟, 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑟 𐑩 𐑐𐑸𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑿𐑯𐑦𐑝𐑻𐑕𐑩𐑤 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑚𐑤𐑩𐑥 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑟. 𐑞 𐑥𐑸𐑒 𐑞𐑱 𐑞𐑳𐑕 𐑤𐑰𐑝 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑥𐑱 𐑚𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑤𐑲𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑞 𐑣𐑪𐑤𐑴 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑩 𐑒𐑸𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑓 𐑩 𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑵.</p>
    <p>𐑞𐑴 𐑩𐑥𐑦𐑛 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑕𐑥𐑴𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑪𐑮𐑼 𐑯 𐑛𐑲𐑩𐑚𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑟𐑩𐑥 𐑝 𐑩 𐑕𐑰-𐑓𐑲𐑑, 𐑖𐑸𐑒𐑕 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑚𐑰 𐑕𐑰𐑯 𐑤𐑪𐑙𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑜𐑱𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑐 𐑑 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐'𐑕 𐑛𐑧𐑒𐑕, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑣𐑳𐑙𐑜𐑮𐑦 𐑛𐑪𐑜𐑟 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑩 𐑑𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑺 𐑮𐑧𐑛 𐑥𐑰𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑸𐑝𐑛, 𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑦 𐑑 𐑚𐑴𐑤𐑑 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑛 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑪𐑕𐑑 𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑥; 𐑯 𐑞𐑴, 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑞 𐑝𐑨𐑤𐑾𐑯𐑑 𐑚𐑫𐑗𐑼𐑟 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑒-𐑑𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑸 𐑞𐑳𐑕 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑸𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑰𐑗 𐑳𐑞𐑼'𐑟 𐑤𐑲𐑝 𐑥𐑰𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑒𐑸𐑝𐑦𐑙-𐑯𐑲𐑝𐑟 𐑷𐑤 𐑜𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑯 𐑑𐑨𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑛, 𐑞 𐑖𐑸𐑒𐑕, 𐑷𐑤𐑕𐑴, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑺 𐑡𐑵𐑩𐑤-𐑣𐑦𐑤𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑥𐑬𐑞𐑟, 𐑸 𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑮𐑩𐑤𐑕𐑩𐑥𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑸𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑢𐑱 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑞 𐑑𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑛 𐑥𐑰𐑑; 𐑯 𐑞𐑴, 𐑢𐑻 𐑿 𐑑 𐑑𐑻𐑯 𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑩𐑓𐑺 𐑳𐑐𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑛𐑬𐑯, 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑚𐑰 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑔𐑦𐑙, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑑 𐑕𐑱, 𐑩 𐑖𐑪𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑖𐑸𐑒𐑦𐑖 𐑚𐑦𐑟𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑦𐑯𐑳𐑓 𐑓 𐑷𐑤 𐑐𐑸𐑑𐑦𐑟; 𐑯 𐑞𐑴 𐑖𐑸𐑒𐑕 𐑷𐑤𐑕𐑴 𐑸 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑺𐑾𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑬𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑛𐑼𐑟 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑕𐑤𐑱𐑝 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑕 𐑒𐑮𐑪𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑞 ·𐑩𐑑𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑒, 𐑕𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑤𐑦 𐑑𐑮𐑪𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙𐑕𐑲𐑛, 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦 𐑦𐑯 𐑒𐑱𐑕 𐑩 𐑐𐑸𐑕𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑟 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑒𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑛 𐑧𐑯𐑦𐑢𐑺, 𐑹 𐑩 𐑛𐑧𐑛 𐑕𐑤𐑱𐑝 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑛𐑰𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑛; 𐑯 𐑞𐑴 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑹 𐑑𐑵 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑕𐑧𐑑 𐑛𐑬𐑯, 𐑑𐑳𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑕𐑧𐑑 𐑑𐑻𐑥𐑟, 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑟, 𐑯 𐑩𐑒𐑱𐑠𐑩𐑯𐑟, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑖𐑸𐑒𐑕 𐑛𐑵 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑪𐑙𐑜𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑱𐑑, 𐑯 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑤𐑺𐑾𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑰𐑕𐑑; 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑞𐑺 𐑯𐑴 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑹 𐑩𐑒𐑱𐑠𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑿 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑯𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑼𐑟, 𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑜𐑱𐑼 𐑹 𐑥𐑹 𐑡𐑴𐑝𐑾𐑤 𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑕, 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑼𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑩 𐑛𐑧𐑛 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑥𐑫𐑼𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑯𐑲𐑑 𐑑 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑰. 𐑦𐑓 𐑿 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑕𐑰𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑲𐑑, 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑕𐑩𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑘𐑹 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑦𐑠𐑩𐑯 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑩𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑛𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤-𐑢𐑻𐑖𐑦𐑐, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑛𐑾𐑯𐑕𐑦 𐑝 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤.</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑳𐑑, 𐑨𐑟 𐑘𐑧𐑑, ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚 𐑣𐑰𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑞 𐑥𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑢𐑩𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑜𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑯 𐑕𐑴 𐑯𐑲 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑯𐑴 𐑥𐑹 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑞 𐑖𐑸𐑒𐑕 𐑣𐑰𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑞 𐑕𐑥𐑨𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯 𐑧𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑘𐑻𐑾𐑯 𐑤𐑦𐑐𐑕.</p>
    <p>“𐑒𐑫𐑒, 𐑒𐑫𐑒!—𐑢𐑺'𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑓𐑤𐑰𐑕?” 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑧𐑙𐑔, 𐑢𐑲𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑧𐑜𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑓𐑻𐑞𐑼, 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑓 𐑑 𐑓𐑹𐑥 𐑩 𐑥𐑹 𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼 𐑚𐑱𐑕 𐑓 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑐𐑼; 𐑯, 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑛𐑸𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑹𐑒 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑛𐑦𐑖, 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑓 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑚𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕; “𐑒𐑫𐑒, 𐑿 𐑒𐑫𐑒!—𐑕𐑱𐑤 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑱, 𐑒𐑫𐑒!”</p>
    <p>𐑞 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒, 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑣𐑲 𐑜𐑤𐑰 𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑰𐑝𐑾𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑬𐑟𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑹𐑥 𐑣𐑨𐑥𐑩𐑒 𐑨𐑑 𐑩 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑳𐑯𐑕𐑰𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑬𐑼, 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑖𐑨𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑜𐑨𐑤𐑦, 𐑓, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒𐑕, 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑼 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑰-𐑐𐑨𐑯𐑟, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑣𐑰 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑒𐑰𐑐 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑕𐑒𐑬𐑼𐑛 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑐𐑨𐑯𐑟; 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑓𐑤𐑰𐑕, 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑱 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑖𐑳𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑯 𐑤𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙, 𐑩𐑕𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑐 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑪𐑙𐑟, 𐑢𐑦𐑗, 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑩 𐑒𐑤𐑳𐑥𐑟𐑦 𐑓𐑨𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑢𐑻 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑝 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑲𐑼𐑯 𐑣𐑵𐑐𐑕; 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑧𐑚𐑩𐑯𐑦 𐑓𐑤𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑛 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙, 𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑴𐑚𐑰𐑛𐑾𐑯𐑕 𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑛 𐑝 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑛, 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑑 𐑩 𐑛𐑧𐑛 𐑕𐑑𐑪𐑐 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑪𐑐𐑩𐑟𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑝 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚'𐑟 𐑕𐑲𐑛𐑚𐑹𐑛; 𐑢𐑧𐑯, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑔 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑓𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑯 𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑵-𐑤𐑧𐑜𐑩𐑛 𐑒𐑱𐑯, 𐑣𐑰 𐑚𐑴𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑸𐑗𐑑 𐑚𐑨𐑒 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑓𐑻𐑞𐑼 𐑴𐑝𐑼, 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑕𐑲𐑛𐑢𐑱𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑧𐑛, 𐑕𐑴 𐑨𐑟 𐑑 𐑚𐑮𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑽 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑐𐑤𐑱.</p>
    <p>“𐑒𐑫𐑒,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚, 𐑮𐑨𐑐𐑦𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑮𐑭𐑞𐑼 𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑦𐑖 𐑥𐑹𐑕𐑩𐑤 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑬𐑔, “𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑿 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑦𐑟 𐑮𐑭𐑞𐑼 𐑴𐑝𐑼𐑛𐑳𐑯? 𐑿'𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑚𐑰𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑑𐑵 𐑥𐑳𐑗, 𐑒𐑫𐑒; 𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑑𐑵 𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑼. 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑲 𐑷𐑤𐑢𐑱𐑟 𐑕𐑱 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑜𐑫𐑛, 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑑𐑳𐑓? 𐑞𐑺 𐑸 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑖𐑸𐑒𐑕 𐑯𐑬 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 𐑕𐑲𐑛, 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑿 𐑕𐑰 𐑞𐑱 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑓𐑻 𐑦𐑑 𐑑𐑳𐑓 𐑯 𐑮𐑺? 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑩 𐑖𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑦 𐑞𐑱 𐑸 𐑒𐑦𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑐! 𐑒𐑫𐑒, 𐑜𐑴 𐑯 𐑑𐑷𐑒 𐑑 '𐑩𐑥; 𐑑𐑧𐑤 '𐑩𐑥 𐑞𐑱 𐑸 𐑢𐑧𐑤𐑒𐑩𐑥 𐑑 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑐 𐑞𐑧𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑝𐑟 𐑕𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑤𐑦, 𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑪𐑛𐑼𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑱 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑒𐑰𐑐 𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑩𐑑. 𐑚𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑰, 𐑦𐑓 𐑲 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑣𐑽 𐑥𐑲 𐑴𐑯 𐑝𐑶𐑕. 𐑩𐑢𐑱, 𐑒𐑫𐑒, 𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑼 𐑥𐑲 𐑥𐑧𐑕𐑦𐑡. 𐑣𐑽, 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑯,” 𐑕𐑯𐑨𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑲𐑛𐑚𐑹𐑛; “𐑯𐑬 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑜𐑴 𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑰𐑗 𐑑 '𐑩𐑥!”</p>
    <p>𐑕𐑳𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑪𐑓𐑼𐑛 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑯, 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑓𐑤𐑰𐑕 𐑤𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑑 𐑩𐑒𐑮𐑪𐑕 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑒 𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑫𐑤𐑢𐑼𐑒𐑕; 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑛𐑮𐑪𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑲𐑑 𐑤𐑴 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 𐑕𐑰, 𐑕𐑴 𐑨𐑟 𐑑 𐑜𐑧𐑑 𐑩 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑝𐑿 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑪𐑙𐑜𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑥𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑤𐑳𐑮𐑦𐑖𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑪𐑙𐑟, 𐑯 𐑤𐑰𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑸 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑥𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑝𐑶𐑕 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑨𐑯 𐑩𐑛𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑖𐑸𐑒𐑕, 𐑢𐑲𐑤 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚, 𐑕𐑪𐑓𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑮𐑷𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑦𐑣𐑲𐑯𐑛, 𐑴𐑝𐑼𐑣𐑻𐑛 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑧𐑛.</p>
    <p>“𐑓𐑧𐑤𐑴-𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑼𐑟: ·𐑲'𐑟 𐑹𐑛𐑼𐑛 𐑣𐑽 𐑑 𐑕𐑱 𐑛𐑨𐑑 𐑿 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑪𐑐 𐑛𐑨𐑑 𐑛𐑨𐑥 𐑯𐑶𐑟 𐑛𐑺. 𐑿 𐑣𐑽? 𐑕𐑑𐑪𐑐 𐑛𐑨𐑑 𐑛𐑨𐑥 𐑕𐑥𐑨𐑒𐑦𐑯' 𐑪𐑚 𐑛𐑦 𐑤𐑦𐑐! ·𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑩 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚 𐑕𐑱 𐑛𐑨𐑑 𐑿 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑓𐑦𐑤 𐑘𐑹 𐑛𐑨𐑥 𐑚𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑟 𐑳𐑐 𐑑 𐑛𐑦 𐑣𐑨𐑗𐑦𐑙𐑟, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑚𐑲 ·𐑜𐑹! 𐑿 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑪𐑐 𐑛𐑨𐑑 𐑛𐑨𐑥 𐑮𐑨𐑒𐑩𐑑!”</p>
    <p>“𐑒𐑫𐑒,” 𐑣𐑽 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑐𐑴𐑟𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚, 𐑩𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑕𐑳𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑕𐑤𐑨𐑐 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑖𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑼,—“𐑒𐑫𐑒! 𐑢𐑲, 𐑛𐑨𐑥 𐑘𐑹 𐑲𐑟, 𐑿 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑕𐑢𐑺 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑱 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑿'𐑼 𐑐𐑮𐑰𐑗𐑦𐑙. 𐑞𐑨𐑑'𐑕 𐑯𐑴 𐑢𐑱 𐑑 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑝𐑻𐑑 𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑼𐑟, 𐑒𐑫𐑒!”</p>
    <p>“𐑣𐑵 𐑛𐑨𐑑? 𐑛𐑧𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑰𐑗 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑘𐑹𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓,” 𐑕𐑳𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑜𐑴.</p>
    <p>“𐑯𐑴, 𐑒𐑫𐑒; 𐑜𐑴 𐑪𐑯, 𐑜𐑴 𐑪𐑯.”</p>
    <p>“𐑢𐑧𐑤, 𐑛𐑧𐑯, ·𐑚𐑧𐑤𐑳𐑚𐑛 𐑓𐑧𐑤𐑴-𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑼𐑟:”—</p>
    <p>“𐑮𐑲𐑑!” 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑒𐑤𐑱𐑥𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚, 𐑩𐑐𐑮𐑵𐑝𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦, “𐑒𐑴𐑒𐑕 '𐑩𐑥 𐑑 𐑦𐑑; 𐑑𐑮𐑲 𐑞𐑨𐑑,” 𐑯 ·𐑓𐑤𐑰𐑕 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑿𐑛.</p>
    <p>“𐑛𐑵 𐑿 𐑦𐑟 𐑷𐑤 𐑖𐑸𐑒𐑕, 𐑯 𐑚𐑲 𐑯𐑭𐑑𐑫𐑼 𐑢𐑻𐑦 𐑢𐑹𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑕, 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑲 ·𐑟𐑱 𐑑 𐑿, 𐑓𐑧𐑤𐑴-𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑼𐑟, 𐑛𐑨𐑑 𐑛𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑹𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑕𐑯𐑩𐑕—'𐑑𐑪𐑐 𐑛𐑨𐑑 𐑛𐑨𐑥 𐑕𐑤𐑨𐑐𐑦𐑯' 𐑪𐑚 𐑛𐑦 𐑑𐑱𐑤! 𐑣𐑬 𐑿 𐑑𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑑 𐑣𐑽, 𐑕𐑐𐑴𐑟 𐑿 𐑒𐑰𐑐 𐑳𐑐 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑛𐑨𐑥 𐑕𐑤𐑨𐑐𐑦𐑯' 𐑯 𐑚𐑲𐑑𐑦𐑯' 𐑛𐑺?”</p>
    <p>“𐑒𐑫𐑒,” 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚, 𐑒𐑪𐑤𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥, “𐑲 𐑢𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑢𐑺𐑦𐑙. 𐑑𐑷𐑒 𐑑 '𐑩𐑥 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦.”</p>
    <p>𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕 𐑥𐑹 𐑞 𐑕𐑻𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑕𐑰𐑛𐑩𐑛.</p>
    <p>“𐑘𐑹 𐑢𐑹𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑕𐑯𐑩𐑕, 𐑓𐑧𐑤𐑴-𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑼𐑟, 𐑲 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑚𐑤𐑱𐑥 𐑘𐑰 𐑕𐑴 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑓; 𐑛𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑭𐑑𐑫𐑼, 𐑯 𐑒𐑭𐑯𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑐𐑑; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑑 𐑜𐑪𐑚𐑼𐑯 𐑛𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑛 𐑯𐑭𐑑𐑫𐑼, 𐑛𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑦 𐑐𐑲𐑯𐑑. 𐑿 𐑦𐑟 𐑖𐑸𐑒𐑕, 𐑕𐑸𐑑𐑦𐑯; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑓 𐑿 𐑜𐑪𐑚𐑼𐑯 𐑛𐑦 𐑖𐑸𐑒 𐑦𐑯 𐑿, 𐑢𐑲 𐑛𐑧𐑯 𐑿 𐑚𐑰 𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑩𐑤; 𐑓 𐑷𐑤 𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑'𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑹 𐑛𐑨𐑯 𐑛𐑦 𐑖𐑸𐑒 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑜𐑪𐑚𐑼𐑯𐑛. 𐑯𐑬, 𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑣𐑽, 𐑚𐑮𐑧𐑛'𐑼𐑩𐑯, 𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑑𐑮𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 ·𐑕𐑦𐑚𐑦𐑤, 𐑩 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑘𐑹𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑚𐑕 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑛𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤. 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑑𐑺𐑦𐑯' 𐑛𐑦 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑚𐑼 𐑬𐑑 𐑘𐑹 𐑯𐑱𐑚𐑼'𐑟 𐑥𐑬𐑑, 𐑲 𐑕𐑱. 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑖𐑸𐑒 𐑛𐑵𐑛 𐑮𐑲𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑑𐑪𐑛𐑼 𐑑 𐑛𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤? 𐑯, 𐑚𐑲 ·𐑜𐑹, 𐑯𐑳𐑯 𐑪𐑯 𐑿 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑛𐑦 𐑮𐑲𐑑 𐑑 𐑛𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤; 𐑛𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑧𐑤𐑕. 𐑲 𐑯𐑴 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑴' 𐑿 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑚𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑚𐑮𐑦𐑜 𐑥𐑬𐑑, 𐑚𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑼 𐑛𐑨𐑯 𐑴𐑛𐑼𐑟; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑛𐑧𐑯 𐑛𐑦 𐑚𐑮𐑦𐑜 𐑥𐑬𐑑𐑕 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑛𐑦 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤 𐑚𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑟; 𐑕𐑴 𐑛𐑨𐑑 𐑛𐑦 𐑚𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑛𐑦 𐑥𐑬𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑑 ·𐑕𐑢𐑷𐑤𐑼 ·𐑢𐑦𐑛, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑑 𐑪𐑓 𐑛𐑦 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑚𐑼 𐑓 𐑛𐑦 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤 𐑓𐑮𐑲 𐑪𐑚 𐑖𐑸𐑒𐑕, 𐑛𐑨𐑑 𐑒𐑭𐑯𐑑 𐑜𐑧𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑛𐑦 𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑡 𐑑 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑐 𐑛𐑧𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑝𐑟.”</p>
    <p>“𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑛𐑳𐑯, 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑓𐑤𐑰𐑕!” 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚, “𐑞𐑨𐑑'𐑕 ·𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑦; 𐑜𐑴 𐑪𐑯.”</p>
    <p>“𐑯𐑴 𐑿𐑕 𐑜𐑴𐑦𐑯' 𐑪𐑯; 𐑛𐑦 𐑛𐑨𐑥 𐑢𐑦𐑤𐑱𐑯𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑒𐑰𐑐 𐑩 𐑕𐑒𐑴𐑳𐑜𐑦𐑯' 𐑯 𐑕𐑤𐑨𐑐𐑦𐑯' 𐑰𐑗 𐑴𐑛𐑼, ·𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑩 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚; 𐑛𐑱 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑣𐑽 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑢𐑻𐑛; 𐑯𐑴 𐑿𐑕 𐑩-𐑐𐑮𐑰𐑗𐑦𐑯' 𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑛𐑨𐑥 𐑜'𐑳𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑨𐑟 𐑿 𐑒𐑷𐑤 '𐑩𐑥, 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑛𐑺 𐑚𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑫𐑤, 𐑯 𐑛𐑺 𐑚𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑥𐑤𐑩𐑕; 𐑯 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑛𐑱 𐑛𐑵 𐑜𐑧𐑑 '𐑩𐑥 𐑓𐑫𐑤, 𐑛𐑱 𐑢𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑣𐑽 𐑿 𐑛𐑧𐑯; 𐑓 𐑛𐑧𐑯 𐑛𐑱 𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑦𐑯 𐑛𐑦 𐑕𐑰, 𐑜𐑴 𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑑 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐 𐑪𐑯 𐑛𐑦 𐑒𐑪𐑮𐑩𐑤, 𐑯 𐑒𐑭𐑯𐑑 𐑣𐑽 𐑯𐑪𐑑'𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤, 𐑯𐑴 𐑥𐑹, 𐑓 ·𐑧𐑚𐑼 𐑯 ·𐑧𐑚𐑼.”</p>
    <p>“𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑥𐑲 𐑕𐑴𐑤, 𐑲 𐑨𐑥 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑩𐑐𐑦𐑯𐑘𐑩𐑯; 𐑕𐑴 𐑜𐑦𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑧𐑯𐑦𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯, ·𐑓𐑤𐑰𐑕, 𐑯 𐑲'𐑤 𐑩𐑢𐑱 𐑑 𐑥𐑲 𐑕𐑳𐑐𐑼.”</p>
    <p>𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕, ·𐑓𐑤𐑰𐑕, 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑴𐑔 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑦 𐑥𐑪𐑚, 𐑮𐑱𐑟𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑖𐑮𐑦𐑤 𐑝𐑶𐑕, 𐑯 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛—</p>
    <p>“𐑒𐑳𐑕𐑩𐑛 𐑓𐑧𐑤𐑴-𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑼𐑟! 𐑒𐑦𐑒 𐑳𐑐 𐑛𐑦 𐑛𐑨𐑥𐑛𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑮𐑴 𐑨𐑟 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑿 𐑒𐑨𐑯; 𐑓𐑦𐑤 𐑘𐑹 𐑛𐑨𐑥' 𐑚𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑟 '𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑛𐑱 𐑚𐑳𐑕𐑑—𐑯 𐑛𐑧𐑯 𐑛𐑲.”</p>
    <p>“𐑯𐑬, 𐑒𐑫𐑒,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚, 𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑿𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑐𐑼 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯; “𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑺 𐑿 𐑕𐑑𐑫𐑛 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹, 𐑞𐑺, 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑰, 𐑯 𐑐𐑱 𐑐𐑼𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑼 𐑩𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑯.”</p>
    <p>“𐑷𐑤 𐑛𐑧𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑯,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 ·𐑓𐑤𐑰𐑕, 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑵𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑪𐑙𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑛𐑦𐑟𐑲𐑼𐑛 𐑐𐑩𐑟𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯.</p>
    <p>“𐑢𐑧𐑤,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚, 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑓𐑮𐑰𐑤𐑦 𐑥𐑰𐑯𐑢𐑲𐑤; “𐑲 𐑖𐑨𐑤 𐑯𐑬 𐑜𐑴 𐑚𐑨𐑒 𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑚𐑡𐑧𐑒𐑑 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑒. 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕, 𐑣𐑬 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑸 𐑿, 𐑒𐑫𐑒?”</p>
    <p>“𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑛𐑨𐑑 𐑛𐑵 ·𐑢𐑦𐑛 𐑛𐑦 '𐑑𐑰𐑒,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑞 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒, 𐑑𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤𐑦.</p>
    <p>“𐑕𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑕! 𐑣𐑬 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑸 𐑿, 𐑒𐑫𐑒?”</p>
    <p>“'𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑯𐑲𐑯𐑑𐑦, 𐑛𐑱 𐑕𐑱,” 𐑣𐑰 𐑜𐑤𐑵𐑥𐑦𐑤𐑦 𐑥𐑳𐑑𐑼𐑛.</p>
    <p>“𐑯 𐑿 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛 𐑣𐑸𐑛 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑛 𐑘𐑽𐑟, 𐑒𐑫𐑒, 𐑯 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑯𐑴 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑣𐑬 𐑑 𐑒𐑫𐑒 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑒?” 𐑮𐑨𐑐𐑦𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑴𐑤𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑯𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑥𐑬𐑔𐑓𐑫𐑤 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑻𐑛, 𐑕𐑴 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑹𐑕𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑩 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑿𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑕𐑗𐑩𐑯. “𐑢𐑺 𐑢𐑻 𐑿 𐑚𐑹𐑯, 𐑒𐑫𐑒?”</p>
    <p>“'𐑣𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑛𐑦 𐑣𐑨𐑗𐑢𐑱, 𐑦𐑯 𐑓𐑧𐑮𐑦-𐑚𐑴𐑑, 𐑜𐑴𐑦𐑯' 𐑴𐑚𐑼 𐑛𐑦 ·𐑮𐑴𐑯𐑴𐑒.”</p>
    <p>“𐑚𐑹𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑓𐑧𐑮𐑦-𐑚𐑴𐑑! 𐑞𐑨𐑑'𐑕 𐑒𐑢𐑽, 𐑑𐑵. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑯𐑑 𐑑 𐑯𐑴 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑒𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑦 𐑿 𐑢𐑻 𐑚𐑹𐑯 𐑦𐑯, 𐑒𐑫𐑒!”</p>
    <p>“𐑛𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑲 𐑕𐑱 𐑛𐑦 ·𐑮𐑴𐑯𐑴𐑒 𐑒𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑦?” 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 𐑖𐑸𐑐𐑤𐑦.</p>
    <p>“𐑯𐑴, 𐑿 𐑛𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑, 𐑒𐑫𐑒; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑲'𐑤 𐑑𐑧𐑤 𐑿 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑲'𐑥 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑑, 𐑒𐑫𐑒. 𐑿 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑜𐑴 𐑣𐑴𐑥 𐑯 𐑚𐑰 𐑚𐑹𐑯 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯; 𐑿 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑯𐑴 𐑣𐑬 𐑑 𐑒𐑫𐑒 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑘𐑧𐑑.”</p>
    <p>“·𐑚𐑮𐑰𐑧𐑕 𐑥𐑲 𐑕𐑴𐑤, 𐑦𐑓 𐑲 𐑒𐑫𐑒 𐑯𐑴𐑛𐑼 𐑢𐑳𐑯,” 𐑣𐑰 𐑜𐑮𐑬𐑤𐑛, 𐑨𐑙𐑜𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑦, 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑐𐑸𐑑.</p>
    <p>“𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑚𐑨𐑒, 𐑒𐑫𐑒;—𐑣𐑽, 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑥𐑰 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑑𐑪𐑙𐑟;—𐑯𐑬 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑑 𐑝 𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑞𐑺, 𐑯 𐑑𐑧𐑤 𐑥𐑰 𐑦𐑓 𐑿 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑒𐑫𐑒𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑚𐑰? 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑦𐑑, 𐑲 𐑕𐑱”—𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑑𐑪𐑙𐑟 𐑑𐑩𐑢𐑹𐑛𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑥—“𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑦𐑑, 𐑯 𐑑𐑱𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑑.”</p>
    <p>𐑓𐑱𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑥𐑨𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑼𐑛 𐑤𐑦𐑐𐑕 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑦𐑑 𐑓 𐑩 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑, 𐑞 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑯𐑰𐑜𐑮𐑴 𐑥𐑳𐑑𐑼𐑛, “𐑚𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑒𐑫𐑒𐑑 '𐑑𐑰𐑒 𐑲 ·𐑧𐑚𐑼 𐑑𐑱𐑕𐑑; ·𐑡𐑵𐑟𐑦, 𐑚𐑧𐑮𐑦 ·𐑡𐑵𐑟𐑦.”</p>
    <p>“𐑒𐑫𐑒,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚, 𐑕𐑒𐑢𐑺𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕 𐑥𐑹; “𐑛𐑵 𐑿 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑑 𐑞 𐑗𐑻𐑗?”</p>
    <p>“𐑐𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑒𐑱𐑐-·𐑛𐑬𐑯,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑞 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦.</p>
    <p>“𐑯 𐑿 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑘𐑹 𐑤𐑲𐑓 𐑐𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑩 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑦 𐑗𐑻𐑗 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑒𐑱𐑐-·𐑑𐑬𐑯, 𐑢𐑺 𐑿 𐑛𐑬𐑑𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑴𐑝𐑼𐑣𐑻𐑛 𐑩 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑸𐑟𐑩𐑯 𐑩𐑛𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑽𐑼𐑟 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑳𐑝𐑩𐑛 𐑓𐑧𐑤𐑴-𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑗𐑼𐑟, 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑿, 𐑒𐑫𐑒! 𐑯 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑿 𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑣𐑽, 𐑯 𐑑𐑧𐑤 𐑥𐑰 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑛𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑤𐑲 𐑨𐑟 𐑿 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑯𐑬, 𐑱?” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚. “𐑢𐑺 𐑛𐑵 𐑿 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑑 𐑑 𐑜𐑴 𐑑, 𐑒𐑫𐑒?”</p>
    <p>“𐑜𐑴 𐑑 𐑚𐑧𐑛 𐑚𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑕𐑵𐑯,” 𐑣𐑰 𐑥𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑛, 𐑣𐑭𐑓-𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑐𐑴𐑒.</p>
    <p>“𐑩𐑝𐑭𐑕𐑑! 𐑣𐑰𐑝 𐑑! 𐑲 𐑥𐑰𐑯 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑿 𐑛𐑲, 𐑒𐑫𐑒. 𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑩𐑯 𐑷𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑕𐑗𐑩𐑯. 𐑯𐑬 𐑢𐑪𐑑'𐑕 𐑘𐑹 𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑼?”</p>
    <p>“𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑕 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑮𐑨𐑒 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑛𐑲𐑟,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑞 𐑯𐑰𐑜𐑮𐑴 𐑕𐑤𐑴𐑤𐑦, 𐑗𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑺 𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑥𐑰𐑯𐑼, “𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑦𐑟𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑢𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑜𐑴 𐑯𐑴𐑢𐑺; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥 ·𐑚𐑮𐑰𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑯 𐑓𐑧𐑗 𐑣𐑦𐑥.”</p>
    <p>“𐑓𐑧𐑗 𐑣𐑦𐑥? 𐑣𐑬? 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑒𐑴𐑗 𐑯 𐑓𐑹, 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑱 𐑓𐑧𐑗𐑑 ·𐑦𐑤𐑲𐑡𐑩? 𐑯 𐑓𐑧𐑗 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑢𐑺?”</p>
    <p>“𐑳𐑐 𐑛𐑸,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 ·𐑓𐑤𐑰𐑕, 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑪𐑙𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑧𐑛, 𐑯 𐑒𐑰𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑕𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑥𐑤𐑦.</p>
    <p>“𐑕𐑴, 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑿 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑑 𐑑 𐑜𐑴 𐑳𐑐 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑬𐑼 𐑥𐑱𐑯-𐑑𐑪𐑐, 𐑛𐑵 𐑿, 𐑒𐑫𐑒, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑿 𐑸 𐑛𐑧𐑛? 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑿 𐑯𐑴 𐑞 𐑣𐑲𐑼 𐑿 𐑒𐑤𐑲𐑥, 𐑞 𐑒𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑼 𐑦𐑑 𐑜𐑧𐑑𐑕? 𐑥𐑱𐑯-𐑑𐑪𐑐, 𐑱?”</p>
    <p>“𐑛𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑕𐑱 𐑛𐑨𐑑 𐑑'𐑷𐑤,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 ·𐑓𐑤𐑰𐑕, 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑤𐑒𐑕.</p>
    <p>“𐑿 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑳𐑐 𐑞𐑺, 𐑛𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑿? 𐑯 𐑯𐑬 𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑘𐑹𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓, 𐑯 𐑕𐑰 𐑢𐑺 𐑘𐑹 𐑑𐑪𐑙𐑟 𐑸 𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑙. 𐑚𐑳𐑑, 𐑐𐑼𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑕 𐑿 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑑 𐑑 𐑜𐑧𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑣𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑚𐑲 𐑒𐑮𐑷𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑞 𐑤𐑳𐑚𐑼'𐑟 𐑣𐑴𐑤, 𐑒𐑫𐑒; 𐑚𐑳𐑑, 𐑯𐑴, 𐑯𐑴, 𐑒𐑫𐑒, 𐑿 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑜𐑧𐑑 𐑞𐑺, 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑧𐑐𐑑 𐑿 𐑜𐑴 𐑞 𐑮𐑧𐑜𐑿𐑤𐑼 𐑢𐑱, 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑦𐑙. 𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑩 𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑖 𐑚𐑦𐑟𐑯𐑩𐑕, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑛𐑳𐑯, 𐑹 𐑧𐑤𐑕 𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑯𐑴 𐑜𐑴. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑯𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑳𐑕 𐑸 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑘𐑧𐑑. 𐑛𐑮𐑪𐑐 𐑘𐑹 𐑑𐑪𐑙𐑟, 𐑒𐑫𐑒, 𐑯 𐑣𐑽 𐑥𐑲 𐑹𐑛𐑼𐑟. 𐑛𐑵 𐑘𐑰 𐑣𐑽? 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑘𐑹 𐑣𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛, 𐑯 𐑒𐑤𐑨𐑐 𐑑𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑩'𐑑𐑪𐑐 𐑝 𐑘𐑹 𐑣𐑸𐑑, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑲'𐑥 𐑜𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑲 𐑹𐑛𐑼𐑟, 𐑒𐑫𐑒. 𐑢𐑪𐑑! 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑘𐑹 𐑣𐑸𐑑, 𐑞𐑺?—𐑞𐑨𐑑'𐑕 𐑘𐑹 𐑜𐑦𐑟𐑼𐑛! 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑓𐑑! 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑓𐑑!—𐑞𐑨𐑑'𐑕 𐑦𐑑—𐑯𐑬 𐑿 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑦𐑑. 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑯𐑬, 𐑯 𐑐𐑱 𐑩𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑯.”</p>
    <p>“𐑷𐑤 '𐑛𐑧𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑯,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑞 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑔 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑛𐑦𐑟𐑲𐑼𐑛, 𐑝𐑱𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑜𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑣𐑧𐑛, 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑓 𐑑 𐑜𐑧𐑑 𐑚𐑴𐑔 𐑽𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑳𐑯𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑑𐑲𐑥.</p>
    <p>“𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑒𐑫𐑒, 𐑿 𐑕𐑰 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑝 𐑘𐑹𐑟 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑴 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑚𐑨𐑛, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑐𐑫𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑕𐑲𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑕𐑵𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑐𐑪𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤; 𐑿 𐑕𐑰 𐑞𐑨𐑑, 𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑿? 𐑢𐑧𐑤, 𐑓 𐑞 𐑓𐑿𐑗𐑼, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑿 𐑒𐑫𐑒 𐑩𐑯𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑓 𐑥𐑲 𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑝𐑩𐑑 𐑑𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑣𐑽, 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯, 𐑲'𐑤 𐑑𐑧𐑤 𐑿 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑑 𐑛𐑵 𐑕𐑴 𐑨𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑶𐑤 𐑦𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑴𐑝𐑼𐑛𐑵𐑦𐑙. 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛, 𐑯 𐑖𐑴 𐑩 𐑤𐑲𐑝 𐑒𐑴𐑤 𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼; 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑛𐑳𐑯, 𐑛𐑦𐑖 𐑦𐑑; 𐑛'𐑘𐑰 𐑣𐑽? 𐑯 𐑯𐑬 𐑑-𐑥𐑪𐑮𐑴, 𐑒𐑫𐑒, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑢𐑰 𐑸 𐑒𐑳𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑦𐑖, 𐑚𐑰 𐑖𐑫𐑼 𐑿 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑑 𐑜𐑧𐑑 𐑞 𐑑𐑦𐑐𐑕 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑦𐑯𐑟; 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑐𐑫𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤. 𐑨𐑟 𐑓 𐑞 𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑓𐑤𐑵𐑒𐑕, 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑕𐑬𐑕𐑑, 𐑒𐑫𐑒. 𐑞𐑺, 𐑯𐑬 𐑘𐑰 𐑥𐑱 𐑜𐑴.”</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑳𐑑 ·𐑓𐑤𐑰𐑕 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑣𐑸𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑜𐑪𐑑 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑐𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑪𐑓, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛.</p>
    <p>“𐑒𐑫𐑒, 𐑜𐑦𐑝 𐑥𐑰 𐑒𐑳𐑑𐑤𐑩𐑑𐑕 𐑓 𐑕𐑳𐑐𐑼 𐑑-𐑥𐑪𐑮𐑴 𐑯𐑲𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑦𐑛-𐑢𐑪𐑗. ·𐑛'𐑘𐑰 𐑣𐑽? 𐑩𐑢𐑱 𐑿 𐑕𐑱𐑤, 𐑞𐑧𐑯.—𐑣𐑩𐑤𐑴! 𐑕𐑑𐑪𐑐! 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑩 𐑚𐑬 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑿 𐑜𐑴.—𐑩𐑝𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑰𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯! 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑚𐑷𐑤𐑟 𐑓 𐑚𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑓𐑩𐑕𐑑—𐑛𐑴𐑯𐑑 𐑓𐑼𐑜𐑧𐑑.”</p>
    <p>“𐑢𐑦𐑖, 𐑚𐑲 ·𐑜𐑹! 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑰𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥, '𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑛 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑰𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤. 𐑲'𐑥 ·𐑚𐑮𐑰𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑓 𐑣𐑰 𐑱𐑯𐑑 𐑥𐑹 𐑝 𐑖𐑸𐑒 𐑛𐑨𐑯 ·𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑩 ·𐑖𐑸𐑒 𐑣𐑦𐑟𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓,” 𐑥𐑳𐑑𐑼𐑛 𐑞 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑥𐑨𐑯, 𐑤𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑢𐑱; 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑕𐑱𐑡 𐑦𐑡𐑨𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑥𐑩𐑒.</p>
  </body>
</html>
