<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Chapter 132</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="chapter-132" xml:lang="en-US">
      <h2 id="chapterheader-132">·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 132. 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑓𐑩𐑯𐑦.</h2>
    </div>
    <p>𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑒𐑤𐑽 𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤-𐑚𐑤𐑵 𐑛𐑱. 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑥𐑩𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑺 𐑯 𐑕𐑰 𐑢𐑻 𐑣𐑸𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑧𐑐𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤-𐑐𐑼𐑝𐑱𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑠𐑼; 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦, 𐑞 𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑝 𐑺 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑐𐑨𐑮𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑘𐑫𐑼 𐑯 𐑕𐑪𐑓𐑑, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑢𐑫𐑥𐑩𐑯'𐑟 𐑤𐑫𐑒, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑮𐑴𐑚𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑯 𐑥𐑨𐑯-𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑕𐑰 𐑣𐑰𐑝𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑤𐑪𐑙, 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑪𐑙, 𐑤𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑢𐑧𐑤𐑟, 𐑨𐑟 ·𐑕𐑨𐑥𐑕𐑩𐑯'𐑟 𐑗𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐.</p>
    <p>𐑣𐑦𐑞𐑼, 𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑞𐑼, 𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑲, 𐑜𐑤𐑲𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑞 𐑕𐑯𐑴-𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑝 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤, 𐑳𐑯𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑻𐑛𐑟; 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑞 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑔𐑷𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑓𐑧𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑯 𐑺; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑑 𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑴 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑛𐑰𐑐𐑕, 𐑓𐑸 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑥𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑚𐑤𐑵, 𐑮𐑳𐑖𐑑 𐑥𐑲𐑑𐑦 𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯𐑟, 𐑕𐑹𐑛-𐑓𐑦𐑖, 𐑯 𐑖𐑸𐑒𐑕; 𐑯 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑪𐑙, 𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑛, 𐑥𐑻𐑛𐑼𐑩𐑕 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑕𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑰.</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑴 𐑞𐑳𐑕 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑦𐑯, 𐑞 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯 𐑖𐑱𐑛𐑟 𐑯 𐑖𐑨𐑛𐑴𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑; 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑑𐑵 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑢𐑳𐑯; 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑞 𐑕𐑧𐑒𐑕, 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑻, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑢𐑦𐑖𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑥.</p>
    <p>𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑓𐑑, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑮𐑶𐑩𐑤 𐑑𐑕𐑸 𐑯 𐑒𐑦𐑙, 𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑯 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑜𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑺 𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑚𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑯 𐑮𐑴𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑰; 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑚𐑮𐑲𐑛 𐑑 𐑜𐑮𐑵𐑥. 𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑜𐑻𐑛𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑲𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑣𐑼𐑲𐑟𐑩𐑯, 𐑩 𐑕𐑪𐑓𐑑 𐑯 𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑥𐑿𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑥𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯—𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑯 𐑣𐑽 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑦𐑒𐑢𐑱𐑑𐑼—𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑴𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑞 𐑓𐑪𐑯𐑛, 𐑔𐑮𐑪𐑚𐑦𐑙 𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑕𐑑, 𐑞 𐑤𐑳𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑤𐑸𐑥𐑟, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑞 𐑐𐑫𐑼 𐑚𐑮𐑲𐑛 𐑜𐑱𐑝 𐑣𐑻 𐑚𐑫𐑟𐑩𐑥 𐑩𐑢𐑱.</p>
    <p>𐑑𐑲𐑛 𐑳𐑐 𐑯 𐑑𐑢𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛; 𐑯𐑸𐑤𐑛 𐑯 𐑯𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑟; 𐑣𐑨𐑜𐑼𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑻𐑥 𐑯 𐑳𐑯𐑘𐑰𐑤𐑛𐑦𐑙; 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑲𐑟 𐑜𐑤𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑒𐑴𐑤𐑟, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑜𐑤𐑴 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑨𐑖𐑩𐑟 𐑝 𐑮𐑵𐑦𐑯; 𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑪𐑑𐑼𐑦𐑙 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑕𐑑𐑫𐑛 𐑓𐑹𐑔 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑤𐑽𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑥𐑹𐑯; 𐑤𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑐𐑤𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑛 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑥𐑩𐑑 𐑝 𐑩 𐑚𐑮𐑬 𐑑 𐑞 𐑓𐑺 𐑜𐑻𐑤'𐑟 𐑓𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑛 𐑝 𐑣𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯.</p>
    <p>𐑴, 𐑦𐑥𐑹𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦, 𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦 𐑝 𐑞 𐑨𐑠𐑼! 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑦𐑟𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑦𐑙𐑛 𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑗𐑼𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑒 𐑷𐑤 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑳𐑕! 𐑕𐑢𐑰𐑑 𐑗𐑲𐑤𐑛𐑣𐑫𐑛 𐑝 𐑺 𐑯 𐑕𐑒𐑲! 𐑣𐑬 𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑾𐑕 𐑢𐑻 𐑘𐑰 𐑝 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚'𐑟 𐑒𐑤𐑴𐑕-𐑒𐑶𐑤𐑛 𐑢𐑴! 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑴 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑲 𐑕𐑰𐑯 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 ·𐑥𐑦𐑮𐑾𐑥 𐑯 ·𐑥𐑸𐑔𐑩, 𐑤𐑭𐑓𐑦𐑙-𐑲𐑛 𐑧𐑤𐑝𐑟, 𐑣𐑰𐑛𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑜𐑨𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑼𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑞𐑺 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑕𐑲𐑼; 𐑕𐑐𐑹𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑡𐑛 𐑤𐑪𐑒𐑕 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑜𐑮𐑵 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑸𐑡 𐑝 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑚𐑻𐑯𐑑-𐑬𐑑 𐑒𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑼 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑯.</p>
    <p>𐑕𐑤𐑴𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑮𐑪𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑒 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑕𐑒𐑳𐑑𐑩𐑤, ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑤𐑰𐑯𐑛 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑗𐑑 𐑣𐑬 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑖𐑨𐑛𐑴 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼 𐑕𐑨𐑙𐑒 𐑯 𐑕𐑨𐑙𐑒 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑜𐑱𐑟, 𐑞 𐑥𐑹 𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑹 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑴𐑝 𐑑 𐑐𐑽𐑕 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑓𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑑𐑦. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑤𐑳𐑝𐑤𐑦 𐑼𐑴𐑥𐑩𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑗𐑭𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑺 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥 𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑤, 𐑓 𐑩 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑, 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑼𐑩𐑕 𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑴𐑤. 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑜𐑤𐑨𐑛, 𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑦 𐑺, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑥 𐑕𐑒𐑲, 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑴𐑒 𐑯 𐑒𐑼𐑧𐑕 𐑣𐑦𐑥; 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑐-𐑥𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛, 𐑕𐑴 𐑤𐑪𐑙 𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑩𐑤—𐑓𐑼𐑚𐑦𐑛𐑦𐑙—𐑯𐑬 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑩𐑓𐑧𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑑 𐑸𐑥𐑟 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚𐑼𐑯 𐑯𐑧𐑒, 𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑕𐑰𐑥 𐑑 𐑡𐑶𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑪𐑚 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑓 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑢𐑳𐑯, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑬𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑢𐑦𐑤𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑯 𐑻𐑦𐑙, 𐑖𐑰 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑻 𐑣𐑸𐑑 𐑑 𐑕𐑱𐑝 𐑯 𐑑 𐑚𐑤𐑧𐑕. 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑚𐑦𐑯𐑰𐑔 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑤𐑬𐑗𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑑 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑛𐑮𐑪𐑐𐑑 𐑩 𐑑𐑽 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑕𐑰; 𐑯𐑹 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑩𐑕𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑱𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑢𐑧𐑤𐑔 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑢𐑰 𐑛𐑮𐑪𐑐.</p>
    <p>𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒 𐑕𐑷 𐑞 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑥𐑨𐑯; 𐑕𐑷 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑣𐑬 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑧𐑝𐑦𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑰𐑯𐑛 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 𐑕𐑲𐑛; 𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑑 𐑣𐑽 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯 𐑑𐑮𐑵 𐑣𐑸𐑑 𐑞 𐑥𐑧𐑠𐑼𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑕𐑪𐑚𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑤 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑼 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑼𐑧𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑼𐑬𐑯𐑛. 𐑒𐑺𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑑 𐑑𐑳𐑗 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑹 𐑚𐑰 𐑯𐑴𐑑𐑦𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑣𐑰 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑛𐑮𐑵 𐑯𐑽 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑫𐑛 𐑞𐑺.</p>
    <p>𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑛.</p>
    <p>“𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒!”</p>
    <p>“𐑕𐑻.”</p>
    <p>“𐑴, ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒! 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑩 𐑥𐑲𐑤𐑛, 𐑥𐑲𐑤𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛, 𐑯 𐑩 𐑥𐑲𐑤𐑛 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑒𐑲. 𐑪𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑛𐑱—𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑕𐑢𐑰𐑑𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑦𐑕—𐑲 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑒 𐑥𐑲 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤—𐑩 𐑚𐑶-𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽 𐑝 𐑱𐑑𐑰𐑯! 𐑓𐑹𐑑𐑦—𐑓𐑹𐑑𐑦—𐑓𐑹𐑑𐑦 𐑘𐑽𐑟 𐑩𐑜𐑴!—𐑩𐑜𐑴! 𐑓𐑹𐑑𐑦 𐑘𐑽𐑟 𐑝 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑿𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙! 𐑓𐑹𐑑𐑦 𐑘𐑽𐑟 𐑝 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑯 𐑐𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑤, 𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑥-𐑑𐑲𐑥! 𐑓𐑹𐑑𐑦 𐑘𐑽𐑟 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑕𐑰! 𐑓 𐑓𐑹𐑑𐑦 𐑘𐑽𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑟 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑓𐑼𐑕𐑱𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑰𐑕𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛, 𐑓 𐑓𐑹𐑑𐑦 𐑘𐑽𐑟 𐑑 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑢𐑹 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑣𐑪𐑮𐑼𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑛𐑰𐑐! 𐑲 𐑯 𐑘𐑧𐑕, ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒, 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑓𐑹𐑑𐑦 𐑘𐑽𐑟 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑩𐑖𐑹. 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑲 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑤𐑲𐑓 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑤𐑧𐑛; 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑕𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑚𐑰𐑯; 𐑞 𐑥𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑛, 𐑢𐑷𐑤𐑛-𐑑𐑬𐑯 𐑝 𐑩 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯'𐑟 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑒𐑤𐑵𐑕𐑦𐑝𐑯𐑩𐑕, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑩𐑛𐑥𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤 𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑑 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑔𐑦 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑯 𐑒𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑦 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑—𐑴, 𐑢𐑽𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑕! 𐑣𐑧𐑝𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑕! 𐑜𐑦𐑯𐑦-𐑒𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑤𐑱𐑝𐑼𐑦 𐑝 𐑕𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑛!—𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑲 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑦𐑕; 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑭𐑓-𐑕𐑩𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑴 𐑒𐑰𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑯𐑴𐑯 𐑑 𐑥𐑰 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹—𐑯 𐑣𐑬 𐑓 𐑓𐑹𐑑𐑦 𐑘𐑽𐑟 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑓𐑧𐑛 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑛𐑮𐑲 𐑕𐑷𐑤𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑓𐑺—𐑓𐑦𐑑 𐑧𐑥𐑚𐑤𐑩𐑥 𐑝 𐑞 𐑛𐑮𐑲 𐑯𐑳𐑮𐑦𐑖𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑥𐑲 𐑕𐑶𐑤!—𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑫𐑼𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑖 𐑓𐑮𐑵𐑑 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑱𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛, 𐑯 𐑚𐑮𐑴𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛'𐑟 𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑖 𐑚𐑮𐑧𐑛 𐑑 𐑥𐑲 𐑥𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑦 𐑒𐑮𐑳𐑕𐑑𐑕—𐑩𐑢𐑱, 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑩𐑢𐑱, 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑘𐑳𐑙 𐑜𐑻𐑤-𐑢𐑲𐑓 𐑲 𐑢𐑧𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑐𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑓𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑦, 𐑯 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑛 𐑓 ·𐑒𐑱𐑐 ·𐑣𐑹𐑯 𐑞 𐑯𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑 𐑛𐑱, 𐑤𐑰𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑛𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑲 𐑥𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑡 𐑐𐑦𐑤𐑴—𐑢𐑲𐑓? 𐑢𐑲𐑓?—𐑮𐑭𐑞𐑼 𐑩 𐑢𐑦𐑛𐑴 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑻 𐑣𐑳𐑟𐑚𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑩𐑤𐑲𐑝! 𐑲, 𐑲 𐑢𐑦𐑛𐑴𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑐𐑫𐑼 𐑜𐑻𐑤 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑲 𐑥𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑛 𐑣𐑻, ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒; 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑛𐑯𐑩𐑕, 𐑞 𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑯𐑟𐑦, 𐑞 𐑚𐑶𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑛 𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑥𐑴𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑮𐑬, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑗, 𐑓 𐑩 𐑔𐑬𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑤𐑴𐑼𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑓𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑾𐑕𐑤𐑦, 𐑓𐑴𐑥𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑗𐑱𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑮𐑱—𐑥𐑹 𐑩 𐑛𐑰𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑩 𐑥𐑨𐑯!—𐑲, 𐑲! 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑩 𐑓𐑹𐑑𐑦 𐑘𐑽𐑟' 𐑓𐑵𐑤—𐑓𐑵𐑤—𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑓𐑵𐑤, 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑚𐑰𐑯! 𐑢𐑲 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑓 𐑝 𐑞 𐑗𐑱𐑕? 𐑢𐑲 𐑢𐑽𐑦, 𐑯 𐑐𐑷𐑤𐑟𐑦 𐑞 𐑸𐑥 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑹, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑲𐑼𐑯, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕? 𐑣𐑬 𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑗𐑼 𐑹 𐑚𐑧𐑑𐑼 𐑦𐑟 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑯𐑬? 𐑚𐑦𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛. 𐑴, ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒! 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑣𐑸𐑛, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑽𐑦 𐑤𐑴𐑛 𐑲 𐑚𐑺, 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑐𐑫𐑼 𐑤𐑧𐑜 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑕𐑯𐑨𐑗𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑥𐑰? 𐑣𐑽, 𐑚𐑮𐑳𐑖 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑣𐑺 𐑩𐑕𐑲𐑛; 𐑦𐑑 𐑚𐑤𐑲𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑥𐑰, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑲 𐑕𐑰𐑥 𐑑 𐑢𐑰𐑐. 𐑤𐑪𐑒𐑕 𐑕𐑴 𐑜𐑮𐑱 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑜𐑮𐑴 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑬𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑨𐑖𐑩𐑟! 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑛𐑵 𐑲 𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑴𐑤𐑛, 𐑕𐑴 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦, 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑴𐑤𐑛, ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒? 𐑲 𐑓𐑰𐑤 𐑛𐑧𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑱𐑯𐑑, 𐑚𐑬𐑛, 𐑯 𐑣𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑑, 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑴 𐑲 𐑢𐑻 ·𐑨𐑛𐑩𐑥, 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑜𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑦𐑯𐑰𐑔 𐑞 𐑐𐑲𐑤𐑛 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑗𐑼𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑕 ·𐑐𐑨𐑮𐑩𐑛𐑲𐑕. 𐑜𐑪𐑛! 𐑜𐑪𐑛! 𐑜𐑪𐑛!—𐑒𐑮𐑨𐑒 𐑥𐑲 𐑣𐑸𐑑!—𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑝 𐑥𐑲 𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑯!—𐑥𐑪𐑒𐑼𐑦! 𐑥𐑪𐑒𐑼𐑦! 𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑼, 𐑚𐑲𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑪𐑒𐑼𐑦 𐑝 𐑜𐑮𐑱 𐑣𐑺𐑟, 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑲 𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑳𐑓 𐑡𐑶 𐑑 𐑢𐑺 𐑘𐑰; 𐑯 𐑕𐑰𐑥 𐑯 𐑓𐑰𐑤 𐑞𐑳𐑕 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑪𐑤𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑴𐑤𐑛? 𐑒𐑤𐑴𐑕! 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑒𐑤𐑴𐑕 𐑑 𐑥𐑰, ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒; 𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑥𐑰 𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑩 𐑣𐑿𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑲; 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑧𐑑𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑑 𐑜𐑱𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑕𐑰 𐑹 𐑕𐑒𐑲; 𐑚𐑧𐑑𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑑 𐑜𐑱𐑟 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛. 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑯 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛; 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑚𐑮𐑲𐑑 𐑣𐑸𐑔-𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑯! 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑡𐑦𐑒 𐑜𐑤𐑭𐑕, 𐑥𐑨𐑯; 𐑲 𐑕𐑰 𐑥𐑲 𐑢𐑲𐑓 𐑯 𐑥𐑲 𐑗𐑲𐑤𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑲𐑯 𐑲. 𐑯𐑴, 𐑯𐑴; 𐑕𐑑𐑱 𐑪𐑯 𐑚𐑹𐑛, 𐑪𐑯 𐑚𐑹𐑛!—𐑤𐑴𐑼 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑲 𐑛𐑵; 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑚𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑜𐑦𐑝𐑟 𐑗𐑱𐑕 𐑑 ·𐑥𐑪𐑚𐑦 ·𐑛𐑦𐑒. 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑟𐑼𐑛 𐑖𐑨𐑤 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑞𐑲𐑯. 𐑯𐑴, 𐑯𐑴! 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑓𐑸 𐑩𐑢𐑱 𐑣𐑴𐑥 𐑲 𐑕𐑰 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑲!”</p>
    <p>“𐑴, 𐑥𐑲 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯! 𐑥𐑲 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯! 𐑯𐑴𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑴𐑤! 𐑜𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑣𐑸𐑑, 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑷𐑤! 𐑢𐑲 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑜𐑦𐑝 𐑗𐑱𐑕 𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑓𐑦𐑖! 𐑩𐑢𐑱 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑥𐑰! 𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑳𐑕 𐑓𐑤𐑲 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑛𐑧𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼𐑟! 𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑳𐑕 𐑣𐑴𐑥! 𐑢𐑲𐑓 𐑯 𐑗𐑲𐑤𐑛, 𐑑𐑵, 𐑸 ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒'𐑕—𐑢𐑲𐑓 𐑯 𐑗𐑲𐑤𐑛 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑮𐑳𐑞𐑼𐑤𐑦, 𐑕𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑤𐑦, 𐑐𐑤𐑱-𐑓𐑧𐑤𐑴 𐑿𐑔; 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑲𐑯, 𐑕𐑻, 𐑸 𐑞 𐑢𐑲𐑓 𐑯 𐑗𐑲𐑤𐑛 𐑝 𐑞𐑲 𐑤𐑳𐑝𐑦𐑙, 𐑤𐑪𐑙𐑦𐑙, 𐑐𐑩𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑱𐑡! 𐑩𐑢𐑱! 𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑳𐑕 𐑩𐑢𐑱!—𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑥𐑰 𐑷𐑤𐑑𐑼 𐑞 𐑒𐑹𐑕! 𐑣𐑬 𐑗𐑽𐑦𐑤𐑦, 𐑣𐑬 𐑣𐑦𐑤𐑺𐑾𐑕𐑤𐑦, 𐑴 𐑥𐑲 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯, 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑢𐑰 𐑚𐑴𐑤 𐑪𐑯 𐑬𐑼 𐑢𐑱 𐑑 𐑕𐑰 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯! 𐑲 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒, 𐑕𐑻, 𐑞𐑱 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑥𐑲𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑤𐑵 𐑛𐑱𐑟, 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑞𐑦𐑕, 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑.”</p>
    <p>“𐑞𐑱 𐑣𐑨𐑝, 𐑞𐑱 𐑣𐑨𐑝. 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑕𐑰𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑥—𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑼 𐑛𐑱𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑹𐑯𐑦𐑙. 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑑𐑲𐑥—𐑘𐑧𐑕, 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑵𐑯 𐑯𐑨𐑐 𐑯𐑬—𐑞 𐑚𐑶 𐑝𐑦𐑝𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑱𐑒𐑕; 𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑳𐑐 𐑦𐑯 𐑚𐑧𐑛; 𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑑𐑧𐑤𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑝 𐑥𐑰, 𐑝 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑥𐑰; 𐑣𐑬 𐑲 𐑨𐑥 𐑩𐑚𐑮𐑷𐑛 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑛𐑰𐑐, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑚𐑨𐑒 𐑑 𐑛𐑭𐑯𐑕 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯.”</p>
    <p>“'𐑑𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑲 ·𐑥𐑺𐑦, 𐑥𐑲 ·𐑥𐑺𐑦 𐑣𐑻𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓! 𐑖𐑰 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑲 𐑚𐑶, 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑥𐑹𐑯𐑦𐑙, 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑚𐑰 𐑒𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑛 𐑑 𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑤 𐑑 𐑒𐑨𐑗 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑜𐑤𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑕 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑭𐑞𐑼'𐑟 𐑕𐑱𐑤! 𐑘𐑧𐑕, 𐑘𐑧𐑕! 𐑯𐑴 𐑥𐑹! 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑳𐑯! 𐑢𐑰 𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑓 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑! 𐑒𐑳𐑥, 𐑥𐑲 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯, 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑛𐑦 𐑬𐑑 𐑞 𐑒𐑹𐑕, 𐑯 𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑳𐑕 𐑩𐑢𐑱! 𐑕𐑰, 𐑕𐑰! 𐑞 𐑚𐑶'𐑟 𐑓𐑱𐑕 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑴! 𐑞 𐑚𐑶'𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑤!”</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑳𐑑 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚'𐑟 𐑜𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩𐑝𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑛; 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑚𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑵𐑑 𐑑𐑮𐑰 𐑣𐑰 𐑖𐑫𐑒, 𐑯 𐑒𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑, 𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑛 𐑨𐑐𐑩𐑤 𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑶𐑤.</p>
    <p>“𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑑, 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑯𐑱𐑥𐑤𐑩𐑕, 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤, 𐑳𐑯𐑻𐑔𐑤𐑦 𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑑; 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑒𐑳𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑙, 𐑣𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑤𐑹𐑛 𐑯 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑼, 𐑯 𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑩𐑤, 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑹𐑕𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑼𐑼 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑥𐑰; 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑯𐑨𐑗𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑤𐑳𐑝𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑯 𐑤𐑪𐑙𐑦𐑙𐑟, 𐑲 𐑕𐑴 𐑒𐑰𐑐 𐑐𐑫𐑖𐑦𐑙, 𐑯 𐑒𐑮𐑬𐑛𐑦𐑙, 𐑯 𐑡𐑨𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑲𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑪𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑑𐑲𐑥; 𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑥𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑰 𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑦 𐑑 𐑛𐑵 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑲 𐑴𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑐𐑼, 𐑯𐑨𐑗𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑣𐑸𐑑, 𐑲 ·𐑛𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑴 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑨𐑟 𐑛𐑺? 𐑦𐑟 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚, ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚? 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑲, ·𐑜𐑪𐑛, 𐑹 𐑣𐑵, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑕 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑸𐑥? 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑓 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑯 𐑥𐑵𐑝 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑨𐑟 𐑩𐑯 𐑧𐑮𐑩𐑯𐑛-𐑚𐑶 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯; 𐑯𐑹 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑑𐑸 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑪𐑤𐑝, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑦𐑟𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑐𐑬𐑼; 𐑣𐑬 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑸𐑑 𐑚𐑰𐑑; 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤 𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑯 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑔𐑷𐑑𐑕; 𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑧𐑕 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛 𐑛𐑳𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑚𐑰𐑑𐑦𐑙, 𐑛𐑳𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑦𐑙, 𐑛𐑳𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑙, 𐑯 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑲. 𐑚𐑲 𐑣𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯, 𐑥𐑨𐑯, 𐑢𐑰 𐑸 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑛 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑯 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑘𐑪𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑩𐑕, 𐑯 ·𐑓𐑱𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑕𐑐𐑲𐑒. 𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑑𐑲𐑥, 𐑤𐑴! 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑥𐑲𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑒𐑲, 𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑳𐑯𐑕𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑕𐑰! 𐑤𐑫𐑒! 𐑕𐑰 𐑘𐑪𐑯 ·𐑨𐑤𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑹! 𐑣𐑵 𐑐𐑫𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑑 𐑗𐑱𐑕 𐑯 𐑓𐑨𐑙 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑓𐑤𐑲𐑦𐑙-𐑓𐑦𐑖? 𐑢𐑺 𐑛𐑵 𐑥𐑻𐑛𐑼𐑼𐑟 𐑜𐑴, 𐑥𐑨𐑯! 𐑣𐑵'𐑟 𐑑 𐑛𐑵𐑥, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞 𐑡𐑳𐑡 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑮𐑨𐑜𐑛 𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑸? 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑩 𐑥𐑲𐑤𐑛, 𐑥𐑲𐑤𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛, 𐑯 𐑩 𐑥𐑲𐑤𐑛 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑒𐑲; 𐑯 𐑞 𐑺 𐑕𐑥𐑧𐑤𐑟 𐑯𐑬, 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑓 𐑦𐑑 𐑚𐑤𐑵 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑩 𐑓𐑸-𐑩𐑢𐑱 𐑥𐑧𐑛𐑴; 𐑞𐑱 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑥𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑱 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑢𐑺 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑞 𐑕𐑤𐑴𐑐𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑰𐑟, ·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑼𐑟 𐑸 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑞 𐑯𐑿-𐑥𐑴𐑯 𐑣𐑱. 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐𐑦𐑙? 𐑲, 𐑑𐑶𐑤 𐑢𐑰 𐑣𐑬 𐑢𐑰 𐑥𐑱, 𐑢𐑰 𐑷𐑤 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑰𐑤𐑛. 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐? 𐑲, 𐑯 𐑮𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑩𐑥𐑦𐑛 𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑯𐑯𐑩𐑕; 𐑨𐑟 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑘𐑽'𐑟 𐑕𐑲𐑞𐑟 𐑓𐑤𐑳𐑙 𐑛𐑬𐑯, 𐑯 𐑤𐑧𐑓𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑣𐑭𐑓-𐑒𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑢𐑭𐑔𐑕—·𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑳𐑒!”</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑚𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑗𐑑 𐑑 𐑩 𐑒𐑹𐑐𐑕'𐑩𐑟 𐑣𐑿 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑺, 𐑞 ·𐑥𐑱𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑤𐑩𐑯 𐑩𐑢𐑱.</p>
    <p>𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑒𐑮𐑪𐑕𐑑 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑒 𐑑 𐑜𐑱𐑟 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑕𐑲𐑛; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑑𐑵 𐑮𐑦𐑓𐑤𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑓𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑑 𐑲𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼 𐑞𐑺. 𐑓𐑧𐑛𐑩𐑤𐑩 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑥𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑰𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑮𐑱𐑤.</p>
  </body>
</html>
