<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Chapter 9</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="chapter-9" xml:lang="en-US">
      <h2 id="chapterheader-9">·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 9. 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑻𐑥𐑩𐑯.</h2>
    </div>
    <p>𐑓𐑭𐑞𐑼 ·𐑥𐑱𐑐𐑩𐑤 𐑮𐑴𐑟, 𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑥𐑲𐑤𐑛 𐑝𐑶𐑕 𐑝 𐑳𐑯𐑩𐑕𐑿𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑷𐑔𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑹𐑛𐑼𐑛 𐑞 𐑕𐑒𐑨𐑑𐑼𐑛 𐑐𐑰𐑐𐑩𐑤 𐑑 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑧𐑯𐑕. “𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑼𐑛 𐑜𐑨𐑙𐑢𐑱, 𐑞𐑺! 𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑩𐑢𐑱 𐑑 𐑤𐑸𐑚𐑼𐑛—𐑤𐑸𐑚𐑼𐑛 𐑜𐑨𐑙𐑢𐑱 𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑼𐑛! 𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑕! 𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑕!”</p>
    <p>𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩 𐑤𐑴 𐑮𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑣𐑧𐑝𐑦 𐑕𐑰-𐑚𐑵𐑑𐑕 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑞 𐑚𐑧𐑯𐑗𐑩𐑟, 𐑯 𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑕𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑼 𐑖𐑳𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑢𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑯'𐑟 𐑖𐑵𐑟, 𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑩𐑑 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯, 𐑯 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑲 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑰𐑗𐑼.</p>
    <p>𐑣𐑰 𐑐𐑷𐑟𐑛 𐑩 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤; 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑯𐑰𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑫𐑤𐑐𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑚𐑬𐑟, 𐑓𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑸𐑡 𐑚𐑮𐑬𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑩𐑒𐑮𐑪𐑕 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑗𐑧𐑕𐑑, 𐑳𐑐𐑤𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑤𐑴𐑟𐑛 𐑲𐑟, 𐑯 𐑪𐑓𐑼𐑛 𐑩 𐑐𐑮𐑱𐑼 𐑕𐑴 𐑛𐑰𐑐𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑝𐑬𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑯𐑰𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑱𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑥 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑰.</p>
    <p>𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛, 𐑦𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑤𐑪𐑙𐑛 𐑕𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑥 𐑑𐑴𐑯𐑟, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑿𐑩𐑤 𐑑𐑴𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑩 𐑚𐑧𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑰 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑓𐑪𐑜—𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑑𐑴𐑯𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑮𐑰𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑓𐑪𐑤𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑗𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑼 𐑑𐑩𐑢𐑹𐑛𐑟 𐑞 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑵𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑟𐑩𐑟, 𐑚𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑓𐑹𐑔 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑐𐑰𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑧𐑜𐑟𐑳𐑤𐑑𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑯 𐑡𐑶—</p>
    <p>𐑯𐑽𐑤𐑦 𐑷𐑤 𐑡𐑶𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑕𐑢𐑧𐑤𐑛 𐑣𐑲 𐑩𐑚𐑳𐑝 𐑞 𐑣𐑬𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑥. 𐑩 𐑚𐑮𐑰𐑓 𐑐𐑷𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑿𐑛; 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑰𐑗𐑼 𐑕𐑤𐑴𐑤𐑦 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑛 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 𐑤𐑰𐑝𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑚𐑲𐑚𐑩𐑤, 𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑, 𐑓𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑐𐑼 𐑐𐑱𐑡, 𐑕𐑧𐑛: “𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑳𐑝𐑩𐑛 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑥𐑱𐑑𐑕, 𐑒𐑤𐑦𐑯𐑗 𐑞 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑝𐑻𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 𐑝 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩—'𐑯 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑺𐑛 𐑩 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑓𐑦𐑖 𐑑 𐑕𐑢𐑪𐑤𐑴 𐑳𐑐 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩.'”</p>
    <p>“𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑥𐑱𐑑𐑕, 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑚𐑫𐑒, 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑱𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑹 𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼𐑟—𐑓𐑹 𐑘𐑸𐑯𐑟—𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑲𐑑𐑦 𐑒𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑗𐑼𐑟. 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑛𐑧𐑐𐑔𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑴𐑤 𐑛𐑳𐑟 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩'𐑟 𐑛𐑰𐑐 𐑕𐑰𐑤𐑲𐑯 𐑕𐑬𐑯𐑛! 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑩 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑜𐑯𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑤𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑯 𐑑 𐑳𐑕 𐑦𐑟 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑓𐑩𐑑! 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑩 𐑯𐑴𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑦𐑖'𐑩𐑟 𐑚𐑧𐑤𐑦! 𐑣𐑬 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑴-𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑯 𐑚𐑶𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑜𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑛! 𐑢𐑰 𐑓𐑰𐑤 𐑞 𐑓𐑤𐑳𐑛𐑟 𐑕𐑻𐑡𐑦𐑙 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑳𐑕; 𐑢𐑰 𐑕𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑑 𐑞 𐑒𐑧𐑤𐑐𐑦 𐑚𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑥 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼𐑟; 𐑕𐑰-𐑢𐑰𐑛 𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑕𐑤𐑲𐑥 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑰 𐑦𐑟 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑳𐑕! 𐑚𐑳𐑑 <i>𐑢𐑪𐑑</i> 𐑦𐑟 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑤𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑫𐑒 𐑝 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩 𐑑𐑰𐑗𐑩𐑟? 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑥𐑱𐑑𐑕, 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑩 𐑑𐑵-𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑤𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑯; 𐑩 𐑤𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑯 𐑑 𐑳𐑕 𐑷𐑤 𐑨𐑟 𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑯 𐑩 𐑤𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑯 𐑑 𐑥𐑰 𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑐𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑙 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛. 𐑨𐑟 𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑩 𐑤𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑯 𐑑 𐑳𐑕 𐑷𐑤, 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑪𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑦 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑦𐑯, 𐑣𐑸𐑛-𐑣𐑸𐑑𐑩𐑛𐑯𐑩𐑕, 𐑕𐑳𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑢𐑱𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑓𐑽𐑟, 𐑞 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑓𐑑 𐑐𐑳𐑯𐑦𐑖𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑, 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕, 𐑐𐑮𐑱𐑼𐑟, 𐑯 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑞 𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑯 𐑡𐑶 𐑝 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩. 𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑷𐑤 𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑼𐑟 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑥𐑧𐑯, 𐑞 𐑕𐑦𐑯 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑕𐑳𐑯 𐑝 ·𐑱𐑥𐑦𐑑𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑤𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑴𐑚𐑰𐑛𐑾𐑯𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑛 𐑝 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛—𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑥𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑯𐑬 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑛 𐑢𐑪𐑟, 𐑹 𐑣𐑬 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑝𐑱𐑛—𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑣𐑰 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑩 𐑣𐑸𐑛 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑛. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑳𐑕 𐑛𐑵 𐑸 𐑣𐑸𐑛 𐑓 𐑳𐑕 𐑑 𐑛𐑵—𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑧𐑥𐑚𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑑—𐑯 𐑣𐑧𐑯𐑕, 𐑣𐑰 𐑪𐑓𐑩𐑯𐑼 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑳𐑕 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑟 𐑑 𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑢𐑱𐑛. 𐑯 𐑦𐑓 𐑢𐑰 𐑴𐑚𐑱 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛, 𐑢𐑰 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑴𐑚𐑱 𐑬𐑼𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑝𐑟; 𐑯 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑴𐑚𐑱𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑼𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑝𐑟, 𐑢𐑺𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑣𐑸𐑛𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑴𐑚𐑱𐑦𐑙 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑕.</p>
    <p>“𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑕𐑦𐑯 𐑝 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑴𐑚𐑰𐑛𐑾𐑯𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥, ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑓𐑻𐑞𐑼 𐑓𐑤𐑬𐑑𐑕 𐑨𐑑 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛, 𐑚𐑲 𐑕𐑰𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑓𐑤𐑰 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑥. 𐑣𐑰 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑕 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑩 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑒𐑨𐑮𐑦 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑒𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑺 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛 𐑛𐑳𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑮𐑱𐑯, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑻𐑔. 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑒𐑳𐑤𐑒𐑕 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑹𐑝𐑟 𐑝 ·𐑡𐑪𐑐𐑩, 𐑯 𐑕𐑰𐑒𐑕 𐑩 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑞𐑨𐑑'𐑕 𐑚𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑓 ·𐑑𐑸𐑖𐑦𐑖. 𐑞𐑺 𐑤𐑻𐑒𐑕, 𐑐𐑼𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑕, 𐑩 𐑣𐑦𐑞𐑼𐑑𐑵 𐑳𐑯𐑣𐑰𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑥𐑰𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑽. 𐑚𐑲 𐑷𐑤 𐑩𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑕 ·𐑑𐑸𐑖𐑦𐑖 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑯𐑴 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑪𐑛𐑼𐑯 ·𐑒𐑩𐑛𐑦𐑟. 𐑞𐑨𐑑'𐑕 𐑞 𐑩𐑐𐑦𐑯𐑘𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑤𐑻𐑯𐑛 𐑥𐑧𐑯. 𐑯 𐑢𐑺 𐑦𐑟 ·𐑒𐑩𐑛𐑦𐑟, 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑥𐑱𐑑𐑕? ·𐑒𐑩𐑛𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑕𐑐𐑱𐑯; 𐑨𐑟 𐑓𐑸 𐑚𐑲 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼, 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 ·𐑡𐑪𐑐𐑩, 𐑨𐑟 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑐𐑪𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑱𐑯𐑗𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑛𐑱𐑟, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑩𐑑𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩𐑯 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑳𐑯𐑯𐑴𐑯 𐑕𐑰. 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑪𐑟 ·𐑡𐑪𐑐𐑩, 𐑞 𐑥𐑪𐑛𐑼𐑯 ·𐑡𐑨𐑓𐑩, 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑥𐑱𐑑𐑕, 𐑦𐑟 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑰𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑥𐑧𐑛𐑦𐑑𐑼𐑱𐑯𐑾𐑯, 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑦𐑮𐑾𐑯; 𐑯 ·𐑑𐑸𐑖𐑦𐑖 𐑹 ·𐑒𐑩𐑛𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑹 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑑𐑵 𐑔𐑬𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑥𐑲𐑤𐑟 𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑢𐑼𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞𐑨𐑑, 𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑬𐑑𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑕 𐑝 ·𐑡𐑦𐑚𐑮𐑷𐑤𐑑𐑼. 𐑕𐑰 𐑘𐑰 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑥𐑱𐑑𐑕, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩 𐑕𐑷𐑑 𐑑 𐑓𐑤𐑰 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛-𐑢𐑲𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛? 𐑥𐑦𐑟𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑥𐑨𐑯! 𐑴! 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑯 𐑢𐑻𐑞𐑦 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑕𐑒𐑹𐑯; 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑕𐑤𐑬𐑗𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑑 𐑯 𐑜𐑦𐑤𐑑𐑦 𐑲, 𐑕𐑒𐑳𐑤𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑟 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛; 𐑐𐑮𐑬𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑝𐑲𐑤 𐑚𐑻𐑜𐑩𐑤𐑼 𐑣𐑱𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑒𐑮𐑪𐑕 𐑞 𐑕𐑰𐑟. 𐑕𐑴 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑹𐑛𐑼𐑛, 𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓-𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑧𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑫𐑒, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑞𐑺 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑐𐑩𐑤𐑰𐑕𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑛𐑱𐑟, ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩, 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑽 𐑕𐑩𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑮𐑪𐑙, 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑼𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑺 𐑣𐑰 𐑑𐑳𐑗𐑑 𐑩 𐑛𐑧𐑒. 𐑣𐑬 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑰'𐑟 𐑩 𐑓𐑿𐑡𐑩𐑑𐑦𐑝! 𐑯𐑴 𐑚𐑨𐑜𐑦𐑡, 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑩 𐑣𐑨𐑑-𐑚𐑪𐑒𐑕, 𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑰𐑟, 𐑹 𐑒𐑸𐑐𐑩𐑑-𐑚𐑨𐑜,—𐑯𐑴 𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑩𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑦 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑹𐑓 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑺 𐑩𐑛𐑿𐑟. 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑, 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑛𐑪𐑡𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑻𐑗, 𐑣𐑰 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑞 ·𐑑𐑸𐑖𐑦𐑖 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑰𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑥𐑟 𐑝 𐑣𐑻 𐑒𐑸𐑜𐑴; 𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑐𐑕 𐑪𐑯 𐑚𐑹𐑛 𐑑 𐑕𐑰 𐑦𐑑𐑕 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑚𐑦𐑯, 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼𐑟 𐑓 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑟𐑦𐑕𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑶𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑜𐑫𐑛𐑟, 𐑑 𐑥𐑸𐑒 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑼'𐑟 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑤 𐑲. ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩 𐑕𐑰𐑟 𐑞𐑦𐑕; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑝𐑱𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑟 𐑑 𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑷𐑤 𐑰𐑟 𐑯 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑓𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑕; 𐑦𐑯 𐑝𐑱𐑯 𐑧𐑕𐑱𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑮𐑧𐑗𐑩𐑛 𐑕𐑥𐑲𐑤. 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑪𐑙 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑿𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑩𐑖𐑫𐑼 𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑯𐑼𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑚𐑰 𐑯𐑴 𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑑. 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑜𐑱𐑥𐑕𐑩𐑥 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑕𐑽𐑾𐑕 𐑢𐑱, 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑼𐑟 𐑑 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼—“𐑡𐑨𐑒, 𐑣𐑰'𐑟 𐑮𐑪𐑚𐑛 𐑩 𐑢𐑦𐑛𐑴;” 𐑹, “·𐑡𐑴, 𐑛𐑵 𐑿 𐑥𐑸𐑒 𐑣𐑦𐑥; 𐑣𐑰'𐑟 𐑩 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑩𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑑;” 𐑹, “𐑣𐑨𐑮𐑦 𐑤𐑨𐑛, 𐑲 𐑜𐑧𐑕 𐑣𐑰'𐑟 𐑞 𐑩𐑛𐑳𐑤𐑑𐑼𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑚𐑮𐑴𐑒 𐑡𐑱𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑜𐑩𐑥𐑹𐑩, 𐑹 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑲𐑒, 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑻𐑛𐑼𐑼𐑟 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 ·𐑕𐑪𐑛𐑩𐑥.” 𐑩𐑯𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑮𐑳𐑯𐑟 𐑑 𐑮𐑰𐑛 𐑞 𐑚𐑦𐑤 𐑞𐑨𐑑'𐑕 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑒 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑐𐑲𐑤 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑹𐑓 𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑫𐑼𐑛, 𐑪𐑓𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑲𐑝 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑛 𐑜𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑒𐑶𐑯𐑟 𐑓 𐑞 𐑨𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑣𐑧𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑩 𐑐𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑲𐑛, 𐑯 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑱𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑻𐑕𐑩𐑯. 𐑣𐑰 𐑮𐑰𐑛𐑟, 𐑯 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑕 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩 𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑦𐑤; 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑔𐑧𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑥𐑱𐑑𐑕 𐑯𐑬 𐑒𐑮𐑬𐑛 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩, 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑺𐑛 𐑑 𐑤𐑱 𐑞𐑺 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥. 𐑓𐑮𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑛 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩 𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑟, 𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑱𐑕, 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑕 𐑕𐑴 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑞 𐑥𐑹 𐑩 𐑒𐑬𐑼𐑛. 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑓𐑧𐑕 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑕𐑩𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑑𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑪𐑙 𐑕𐑩𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯. 𐑕𐑴 𐑣𐑰 𐑥𐑱𐑒𐑕 𐑞 𐑚𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑦𐑑; 𐑯 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼𐑟 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑨𐑛𐑝𐑻𐑑𐑲𐑟𐑛, 𐑞𐑱 𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑐𐑭𐑕, 𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑚𐑦𐑯.</p>
    <p>“'𐑣𐑵'𐑟 𐑞𐑺?' 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑟 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑦𐑟𐑦 𐑛𐑧𐑕𐑒, 𐑣𐑳𐑮𐑦𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑥𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑱𐑐𐑼𐑟 𐑓 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑳𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑥𐑟—'𐑣𐑵'𐑟 𐑞𐑺?' 𐑴! 𐑣𐑬 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑸𐑥𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑕𐑗𐑩𐑯 𐑥𐑨𐑙𐑜𐑩𐑤𐑟 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩! 𐑓 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑟 𐑑 𐑓𐑤𐑰 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑮𐑨𐑤𐑦𐑟. '𐑲 𐑕𐑰𐑒 𐑩 𐑐𐑨𐑕𐑦𐑡 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑑 ·𐑑𐑸𐑖𐑦𐑖; 𐑣𐑬 𐑕𐑵𐑯 𐑕𐑱𐑤 𐑘𐑰, 𐑕𐑻?' 𐑞𐑳𐑕 𐑓𐑸 𐑞 𐑚𐑦𐑟𐑦 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑑 𐑳𐑐 𐑑 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩, 𐑞𐑴 𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑯𐑬 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑣𐑦𐑥; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑯𐑴 𐑕𐑵𐑯𐑼 𐑛𐑳𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑽 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑪𐑤𐑴 𐑝𐑶𐑕, 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑛𐑸𐑑𐑕 𐑩 𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑲𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑜𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕. '𐑢𐑰 𐑕𐑱𐑤 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑯𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑑𐑲𐑛,' 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑤𐑴𐑤𐑦 𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑼𐑛, 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑲𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥. '𐑯𐑴 𐑕𐑵𐑯𐑼, 𐑕𐑻?'—'𐑕𐑵𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑳𐑓 𐑓 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑪𐑯𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑜𐑴𐑟 𐑩 𐑐𐑨𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑡𐑼.' 𐑣𐑭! ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩, 𐑞𐑨𐑑'𐑕 𐑩𐑯𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑚. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑟 𐑩𐑢𐑱 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑑. '𐑲'𐑤 𐑕𐑱𐑤 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑘𐑰,'—𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑧𐑟,—'𐑞 𐑐𐑨𐑕𐑦𐑡 𐑥𐑳𐑯𐑦 𐑣𐑬 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑦𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑?—𐑲'𐑤 𐑐𐑱 𐑯𐑬.' 𐑓 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑼𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑼𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑯, 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑥𐑱𐑑𐑕, 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑓 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑻 𐑩 𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑴𐑝𐑼𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑣𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑦, '𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑐𐑱𐑛 𐑞 𐑓𐑺 𐑞𐑺𐑪𐑝' 𐑺 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑭𐑓𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑕𐑱𐑤. 𐑯 𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑, 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑫𐑤 𐑝 𐑥𐑰𐑯𐑦𐑙.</p>
    <p>“𐑯𐑬 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩'𐑟 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯, 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑥𐑱𐑑𐑕, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑣𐑵𐑟 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑻𐑯𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑑𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑕 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑥 𐑦𐑯 𐑧𐑯𐑦, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑣𐑵𐑟 𐑒𐑿𐑐𐑦𐑛𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑴𐑟𐑩𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑦𐑤𐑩𐑕. 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛, 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑥𐑱𐑑𐑕, 𐑕𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑐𐑱𐑟 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑢𐑱 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑝𐑩𐑤 𐑓𐑮𐑰𐑤𐑦, 𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑 𐑩 𐑐𐑭𐑕𐑐𐑹𐑑; 𐑢𐑺𐑨𐑟 ·𐑝𐑻𐑗𐑵, 𐑦𐑓 𐑩 𐑐𐑷𐑐𐑼, 𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑪𐑐𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑓𐑮𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑽𐑟. 𐑕𐑴 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩'𐑟 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑺𐑟 𐑑 𐑑𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑞 𐑤𐑧𐑙𐑔 𐑝 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩'𐑟 𐑐𐑻𐑕, 𐑺 𐑣𐑰 𐑡𐑳𐑡 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑴𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦. 𐑣𐑰 𐑗𐑸𐑡𐑩𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑔𐑮𐑲𐑕 𐑞 𐑿𐑠𐑵𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑳𐑥; 𐑯 𐑦𐑑'𐑕 𐑩𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑑. 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 𐑯𐑴𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩 𐑦𐑟 𐑩 𐑓𐑿𐑡𐑩𐑑𐑦𐑝; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑪𐑤𐑝𐑟 𐑑 𐑣𐑧𐑤𐑐 𐑩 𐑓𐑤𐑲𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑐𐑱𐑝𐑟 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑮𐑽 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑜𐑴𐑤𐑛. 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑢𐑧𐑯 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩 𐑓𐑺𐑤𐑦 𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑕 𐑬𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑻𐑕, 𐑐𐑮𐑵𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑕𐑩𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑥𐑩𐑤𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯. 𐑣𐑰 𐑮𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑒𐑶𐑯 𐑑 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑩 𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑓𐑦𐑑. 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑩 𐑓𐑹𐑡𐑼, 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑢𐑱, 𐑣𐑰 𐑥𐑳𐑑𐑼𐑟; 𐑯 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩 𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑫𐑑 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑓 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑨𐑕𐑦𐑡. '𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑 𐑬𐑑 𐑥𐑲 𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑑-𐑮𐑵𐑥, ·𐑕𐑻,' 𐑕𐑧𐑟 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩 𐑯𐑬, '𐑲'𐑥 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑝𐑩𐑤-𐑢𐑽𐑦; 𐑲 𐑯𐑰𐑛 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐.' '𐑞𐑬 𐑤𐑫𐑒𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑦𐑑,' 𐑕𐑧𐑟 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯, '𐑞𐑺'𐑟 𐑞𐑲 𐑮𐑵𐑥.' ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩 𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑟, 𐑯 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑤𐑪𐑒 𐑞 𐑛𐑹, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑤𐑪𐑒 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑱𐑯𐑟 𐑯𐑴 𐑒𐑰. 𐑣𐑽𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑓𐑵𐑤𐑦𐑖𐑤𐑦 𐑓𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑺, 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 𐑤𐑭𐑓𐑕 𐑤𐑴𐑤𐑦 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓, 𐑯 𐑥𐑳𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑞 𐑛𐑹𐑟 𐑝 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑝𐑦𐑒𐑑𐑕' 𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑟 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑩𐑤𐑬𐑛 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑤𐑪𐑒𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑦𐑯. 𐑷𐑤 𐑛𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑯 𐑛𐑳𐑕𐑑𐑦 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑟, ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩 𐑔𐑮𐑴𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑻𐑔, 𐑯 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑞 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑑-𐑮𐑵𐑥 𐑕𐑰𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑛. 𐑞 𐑺 𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑤𐑴𐑕, 𐑯 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩 𐑜𐑭𐑕𐑐𐑕. 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑴𐑤, 𐑕𐑳𐑙𐑒, 𐑑𐑵, 𐑚𐑦𐑯𐑰𐑔 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐'𐑕 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼-𐑤𐑲𐑯, ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩 𐑓𐑰𐑤𐑟 𐑞 𐑣𐑧𐑮𐑩𐑤𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑲𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑼, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑖𐑨𐑤 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑬𐑩𐑤𐑟' 𐑢𐑹𐑛𐑟.</p>
    <p>“𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑨𐑒𐑕𐑦𐑕 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑲𐑛, 𐑩 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑙𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑨𐑥𐑐 𐑕𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑪𐑕𐑦𐑤𐑱𐑑𐑕 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩'𐑟 𐑮𐑵𐑥; 𐑯 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐, 𐑣𐑰𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑑𐑩𐑢𐑹𐑛𐑟 𐑞 𐑢𐑹𐑓 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑰𐑝𐑛, 𐑞 𐑤𐑨𐑥𐑐, 𐑓𐑤𐑱𐑥 𐑯 𐑷𐑤, 𐑞𐑴 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑤𐑲𐑑 𐑥𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑑𐑱𐑯𐑟 𐑩 𐑐𐑻𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑴𐑚𐑤𐑦𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑮𐑧𐑓𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑑 𐑞 𐑮𐑵𐑥; 𐑞𐑴, 𐑦𐑯 𐑑𐑮𐑵𐑔, 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑨𐑤𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑦𐑑𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓, 𐑦𐑑 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑪𐑚𐑝𐑾𐑕 𐑞 𐑓𐑷𐑤𐑕, 𐑤𐑲𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑦𐑑 𐑣𐑳𐑙. 𐑞 𐑤𐑨𐑥𐑐 𐑩𐑤𐑸𐑥𐑟 𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑟 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩; 𐑨𐑟 𐑤𐑲𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑻𐑔 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑹𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑲𐑟 𐑮𐑴𐑤 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕, 𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑞𐑳𐑕 𐑓𐑸 𐑕𐑩𐑒𐑕𐑧𐑕𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑓𐑿𐑡𐑩𐑑𐑦𐑝 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑯𐑴 𐑮𐑧𐑓𐑿𐑡 𐑓 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑜𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑤𐑨𐑥𐑐 𐑥𐑹 𐑯 𐑥𐑹 𐑩𐑐𐑷𐑤𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑥. 𐑞 𐑓𐑤𐑹, 𐑞 𐑕𐑰𐑤𐑦𐑙, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑲𐑛, 𐑸 𐑷𐑤 𐑼𐑲. '𐑴! 𐑕𐑴 𐑥𐑲 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑣𐑨𐑙𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑰!' 𐑣𐑰 𐑜𐑮𐑴𐑯𐑟, '𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑳𐑐𐑢𐑼𐑛𐑟, 𐑕𐑴 𐑦𐑑 𐑚𐑻𐑯𐑟; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑗𐑱𐑥𐑚𐑼𐑟 𐑝 𐑥𐑲 𐑕𐑴𐑤 𐑸 𐑷𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑒𐑮𐑫𐑒𐑩𐑛𐑯𐑩𐑕!'</p>
    <p>“𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑣𐑵 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑩 𐑯𐑲𐑑 𐑝 𐑛𐑮𐑳𐑙𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑮𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑮𐑦 𐑣𐑲𐑟 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑧𐑛, 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑮𐑰𐑤𐑦𐑙, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑐𐑤𐑳𐑯𐑡𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑮𐑴𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑮𐑱𐑕-𐑣𐑹𐑕 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑴 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑞 𐑥𐑹 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑒 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤 𐑑𐑨𐑜𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑣𐑦𐑥; 𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑣𐑵 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑦𐑟𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑐𐑤𐑲𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑟 𐑯 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑜𐑦𐑛𐑦 𐑨𐑙𐑜𐑢𐑦𐑖, 𐑐𐑮𐑱𐑦𐑙 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛 𐑓 𐑩𐑯𐑲𐑩𐑤𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑞 𐑓𐑦𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑐𐑭𐑕𐑑; 𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑩𐑥𐑦𐑛 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑤 𐑝 𐑢𐑴 𐑣𐑰 𐑓𐑰𐑤𐑟, 𐑩 𐑛𐑰𐑐 𐑕𐑑𐑿𐑐𐑼 𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤𐑟 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑨𐑟 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑣𐑵 𐑚𐑤𐑰𐑛𐑟 𐑑 𐑛𐑧𐑔, 𐑓 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑢𐑵𐑯𐑛, 𐑯 𐑞𐑺'𐑟 𐑯𐑷𐑑 𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑷𐑯𐑗 𐑦𐑑; 𐑕𐑴, 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑕𐑹 𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑻𐑔, ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩'𐑟 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑛𐑦𐑡𐑦 𐑝 𐑐𐑪𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑩𐑕 𐑥𐑦𐑟𐑼𐑦 𐑛𐑮𐑨𐑜𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑛𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑑 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐.</p>
    <p>“𐑯 𐑯𐑬 𐑞 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑝 𐑑𐑲𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑒𐑳𐑥; 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑒𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑕 𐑪𐑓 𐑣𐑻 𐑒𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑟; 𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑛𐑦𐑟𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑹𐑓 𐑞 𐑳𐑯𐑗𐑽𐑛 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑓 ·𐑑𐑸𐑖𐑦𐑖, 𐑷𐑤 𐑒𐑼𐑰𐑯𐑦𐑙, 𐑜𐑤𐑲𐑛𐑟 𐑑 𐑕𐑰. 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑖𐑦𐑐, 𐑥𐑲 𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑟, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑹𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑕𐑥𐑳𐑜𐑩𐑤𐑼𐑟! 𐑞 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑚𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑢𐑪𐑟 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑰 𐑮𐑧𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑟; 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑚𐑺 𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑻𐑛𐑩𐑯. 𐑩 𐑛𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑥 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑟 𐑪𐑯, 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑑 𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑒. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑯𐑬 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑕𐑩𐑯 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑟 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑻; 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑚𐑪𐑒𐑕𐑩𐑟, 𐑚𐑱𐑤𐑟, 𐑯 𐑡𐑸𐑟 𐑸 𐑒𐑤𐑨𐑑𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑴𐑝𐑼𐑚𐑹𐑛; 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑟 𐑖𐑮𐑰𐑒𐑦𐑙, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑸 𐑘𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑙, 𐑯 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑐𐑤𐑨𐑙𐑒 𐑔𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑰𐑑 𐑮𐑲𐑑 𐑴𐑝𐑼 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩'𐑟 𐑣𐑧𐑛; 𐑦𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑮𐑱𐑡𐑦𐑙 𐑑𐑿𐑥𐑳𐑤𐑑, ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐𐑕 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑛𐑾𐑕 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐. 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑰𐑟 𐑯𐑴 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒 𐑕𐑒𐑲 𐑯 𐑮𐑱𐑡𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑰, 𐑓𐑰𐑤𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑞 𐑮𐑰𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑑𐑦𐑥𐑚𐑼𐑟, 𐑯 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑣𐑽𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑹 𐑣𐑰𐑛𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑞 𐑓𐑸 𐑮𐑳𐑖 𐑝 𐑞 𐑥𐑲𐑑𐑦 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑯𐑬 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑴𐑐𐑩𐑯 𐑥𐑬𐑔 𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑤𐑰𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑕𐑰𐑟 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑣𐑦𐑥. 𐑲, 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑥𐑱𐑑𐑕, ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑜𐑪𐑯 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑕𐑲𐑛𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐—𐑩 𐑚𐑻𐑔 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑚𐑦𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑑, 𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑓𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑓𐑮𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑼 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑟 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑯 𐑖𐑮𐑰𐑒𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑧𐑛 𐑽, '𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑥𐑰𐑯𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑬, 𐑴, 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐𐑼! 𐑼𐑲𐑟!' 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑧𐑔𐑼𐑡𐑦 𐑚𐑲 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑛𐑲𐑼𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑮𐑲, ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑜𐑼𐑟 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑰𐑑, 𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑒, 𐑜𐑮𐑭𐑕𐑐𐑕 𐑩 𐑖𐑮𐑬𐑛, 𐑑 𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑬𐑑 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑰. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑳𐑙 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑚𐑲 𐑩 𐑐𐑨𐑯𐑔𐑼 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑴 𐑤𐑰𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 𐑚𐑫𐑤𐑢𐑼𐑒𐑕. 𐑢𐑱𐑝 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑢𐑱𐑝 𐑞𐑳𐑕 𐑤𐑰𐑐𐑕 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐, 𐑯 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑯𐑴 𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑛𐑦 𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑮𐑳𐑯𐑟 𐑮𐑹𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑹 𐑯 𐑭𐑓𐑑, 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑯𐑼𐑟 𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑯𐑲 𐑑 𐑛𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑩𐑓𐑤𐑴𐑑. 𐑯 𐑧𐑝𐑼, 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑥𐑵𐑯 𐑖𐑴𐑟 𐑣𐑻 𐑩𐑓𐑮𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑓𐑱𐑕 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑐 𐑜𐑳𐑤𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑴𐑝𐑼𐑣𐑧𐑛, 𐑩𐑜𐑭𐑕𐑑 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩 𐑕𐑰𐑟 𐑞 𐑮𐑽𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑴𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑑 𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑲 𐑳𐑐𐑢𐑼𐑛, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑵𐑯 𐑚𐑰𐑑 𐑛𐑬𐑯𐑢𐑼𐑛 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯 𐑑𐑩𐑢𐑹𐑛𐑟 𐑞 𐑑𐑹𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑛𐑰𐑐.</p>
    <p>“𐑑𐑧𐑮𐑼𐑟 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑑𐑧𐑮𐑼𐑟 𐑮𐑳𐑯 𐑖𐑬𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑴𐑤. 𐑦𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑯𐑡𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛𐑟, 𐑞 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛-𐑓𐑿𐑡𐑩𐑑𐑦𐑝 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑬 𐑑𐑵 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑯𐑴𐑯. 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼𐑟 𐑥𐑸𐑒 𐑣𐑦𐑥; 𐑥𐑹 𐑯 𐑥𐑹 𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑜𐑮𐑴 𐑞𐑺 𐑕𐑩𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑, 𐑓𐑫𐑤𐑦 𐑑 𐑑𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑞 𐑑𐑮𐑵𐑔, 𐑚𐑲 𐑮𐑦𐑓𐑻𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑣𐑴𐑤 𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑼 𐑑 𐑣𐑲 ·𐑣𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯, 𐑞𐑱 𐑓𐑷𐑤 𐑑 𐑒𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑪𐑑𐑕, 𐑑 𐑕𐑰 𐑓 𐑣𐑵𐑟 𐑒𐑷𐑟 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑑𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑦𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑥. 𐑞 𐑤𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑟 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩'𐑟; 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑳𐑝𐑼𐑛, 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑣𐑬 𐑓𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑾𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑞𐑱 𐑥𐑪𐑚 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑺 𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑕𐑗𐑩𐑯𐑟. '𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑞𐑲𐑯 𐑪𐑒𐑿𐑐𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯? 𐑢𐑧𐑯𐑕 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑬? 𐑞𐑲 𐑒𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑦? 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑐𐑰𐑐𐑩𐑤? 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑥𐑸𐑒 𐑯𐑬, 𐑥𐑲 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑥𐑱𐑑𐑕, 𐑞 𐑚𐑦𐑣𐑱𐑝𐑘𐑼 𐑝 𐑐𐑫𐑼 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩. 𐑞 𐑰𐑜𐑼 𐑥𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑯𐑼𐑟 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑭𐑕𐑒 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑣𐑵 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑟, 𐑯 𐑢𐑺 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥; 𐑢𐑺𐑨𐑟, 𐑞𐑱 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑰𐑝 𐑩𐑯 𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑼 𐑑 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑕𐑗𐑩𐑯𐑟, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑟 𐑩𐑯𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑼 𐑑 𐑩 𐑒𐑢𐑧𐑕𐑗𐑩𐑯 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑐𐑫𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑞𐑧𐑥, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑳𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑼 𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑹𐑕𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑣𐑸𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑝 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥.</p>
    <p>“'𐑲 𐑨𐑥 𐑩 ·𐑣𐑰𐑚𐑮𐑵,' 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑟—𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯—'𐑲 𐑓𐑽 𐑞 ·𐑤𐑹𐑛 𐑞 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛 𐑝 ·𐑣𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑵 𐑣𐑨𐑔 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑞 𐑕𐑰 𐑯 𐑞 𐑛𐑮𐑲 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛!' 𐑓𐑽 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑴 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩? 𐑲, 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑥𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑬 𐑓𐑽 𐑞 ·𐑤𐑹𐑛 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛 <i>𐑞𐑧𐑯!</i> 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑢𐑱, 𐑣𐑰 𐑯𐑬 𐑜𐑴𐑟 𐑪𐑯 𐑑 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑩 𐑓𐑫𐑤 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑓𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑯; 𐑢𐑺𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑯𐑼𐑟 𐑚𐑦𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑥𐑹 𐑯 𐑥𐑹 𐑩𐑐𐑷𐑤𐑛, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑸 𐑐𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑓𐑩𐑤. 𐑓 𐑢𐑧𐑯 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩, 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑐𐑤𐑦𐑒𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑙 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛 𐑓 𐑥𐑻𐑕𐑦, 𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑕 𐑣𐑰 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑑𐑵 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑯𐑿 𐑞 𐑛𐑸𐑒𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑧𐑟𐑼𐑑𐑕,—𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑮𐑧𐑗𐑩𐑛 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑟 𐑬𐑑 𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑑 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑯 𐑒𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑓𐑹𐑔 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑕𐑰, 𐑓 𐑣𐑰 𐑯𐑿 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑓 <i>𐑣𐑦𐑟</i> 𐑕𐑱𐑒 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑑𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑦𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑥; 𐑞𐑱 𐑥𐑻𐑕𐑦𐑓𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑑𐑻𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑯 𐑕𐑰𐑒 𐑚𐑲 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑥𐑰𐑯𐑟 𐑑 𐑕𐑱𐑝 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑝𐑱𐑯; 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑜𐑱𐑤 𐑣𐑬𐑤𐑟 𐑤𐑬𐑛𐑼; 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑮𐑱𐑟𐑛 𐑦𐑯𐑝𐑴𐑒𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑑 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑞𐑱 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑳𐑯𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑳𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑱 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑝 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩.</p>
    <p>“𐑯 𐑯𐑬 𐑚𐑦𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩 𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑳𐑐 𐑨𐑟 𐑩𐑯 𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑼 𐑯 𐑛𐑮𐑪𐑐𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑕𐑰; 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑯 𐑶𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑭𐑥𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑓𐑤𐑴𐑑𐑕 𐑬𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑰𐑕𐑑, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑰 𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤, 𐑨𐑟 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩 𐑒𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑞 𐑜𐑱𐑤 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑤𐑰𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑥𐑵𐑞 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼 𐑚𐑦𐑣𐑲𐑯𐑛. 𐑣𐑰 𐑜𐑴𐑟 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑸𐑑 𐑝 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑒𐑺𐑕 𐑣𐑰𐑛𐑟 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑛𐑮𐑪𐑐𐑕 𐑕𐑰𐑞𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑘𐑷𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑡𐑷𐑟 𐑩𐑢𐑱𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥; 𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑖𐑵𐑑𐑕-𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑲𐑝𐑼𐑦 𐑑𐑰𐑔, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑕𐑴 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑚𐑴𐑤𐑑𐑕, 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑩𐑯. 𐑞𐑧𐑯 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩 𐑐𐑮𐑱𐑛 𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 ·𐑤𐑹𐑛 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑓𐑦𐑖'𐑩𐑟 𐑚𐑧𐑤𐑦. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩𐑚𐑟𐑻𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑮𐑱𐑼, 𐑯 𐑤𐑻𐑯 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑑𐑦 𐑤𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑯. 𐑓 𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑟, ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩 𐑛𐑳𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑢𐑰𐑐 𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑓 𐑛𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑕. 𐑣𐑰 𐑓𐑰𐑤𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑐𐑳𐑯𐑦𐑖𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑. 𐑣𐑰 𐑤𐑰𐑝𐑟 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑑 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛, 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑦𐑕, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑲𐑑 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑱𐑯𐑟 𐑯 𐑐𐑨𐑙𐑟, 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑑𐑩𐑢𐑹𐑛𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑦 𐑑𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑤. 𐑯 𐑣𐑽, 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑥𐑱𐑑𐑕, 𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑮𐑵 𐑯 𐑓𐑱𐑔𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕; 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑒𐑤𐑨𐑥𐑼𐑩𐑕 𐑓 𐑐𐑸𐑛𐑩𐑯, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑓 𐑐𐑳𐑯𐑦𐑖𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑. 𐑯 𐑣𐑬 𐑐𐑤𐑰𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑑 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑛𐑳𐑒𐑑 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩, 𐑦𐑟 𐑖𐑴𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑦𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑗𐑵𐑩𐑤 𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑕𐑰 𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤. 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑥𐑱𐑑𐑕, 𐑲 𐑛𐑵 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑿 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑒𐑪𐑐𐑦𐑛 𐑓 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑦𐑯 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑲 𐑛𐑵 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑿 𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑥𐑪𐑛𐑩𐑤 𐑓 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕. 𐑕𐑦𐑯 𐑯𐑪𐑑; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑓 𐑿 𐑛𐑵, 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑣𐑰𐑛 𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑦𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑒 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩.”</p>
    <p>𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑢𐑻𐑛𐑟, 𐑞 𐑣𐑬𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑞 𐑖𐑮𐑰𐑒𐑦𐑙, 𐑕𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑥 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑑 𐑨𐑛 𐑯𐑿 𐑐𐑬𐑼 𐑑 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑰𐑗𐑼, 𐑣𐑵, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑚𐑦𐑙 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩'𐑟 𐑕𐑰-𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑥, 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑑𐑪𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓. 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑰𐑐 𐑗𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑰𐑝𐑛 𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑜𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛-𐑕𐑢𐑧𐑤; 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑪𐑕𐑑 𐑸𐑥𐑟 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑞 𐑢𐑹𐑦𐑙 𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑻𐑒; 𐑯 𐑞 𐑔𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑮𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑩𐑢𐑱 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑪𐑓 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑢𐑹𐑞𐑦 𐑚𐑮𐑬, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑤𐑲𐑑 𐑤𐑰𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑲, 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑩𐑤 𐑣𐑽𐑼𐑟 𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑒 𐑓𐑽 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑡 𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑥.</p>
    <p>𐑞𐑺 𐑯𐑬 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑩 𐑤𐑳𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑫𐑒, 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑛 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 𐑤𐑰𐑝𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑚𐑫𐑒 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕 𐑥𐑹; 𐑯, 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑, 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑩𐑕, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑒𐑤𐑴𐑟𐑛 𐑲𐑟, 𐑓 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑, 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑿𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑞 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛 𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓.</p>
    <p>𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑤𐑰𐑯𐑛 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑑𐑩𐑢𐑹𐑛𐑟 𐑞 𐑐𐑰𐑐𐑩𐑤, 𐑯 𐑚𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑤𐑴𐑤𐑦, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩𐑯 𐑨𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑛𐑰𐑐𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑤𐑾𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑿𐑥𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑦, 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑐𐑱𐑒 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑢𐑻𐑛𐑟:</p>
    <p>“𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑥𐑱𐑑𐑕, ·𐑜𐑪𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑤𐑱𐑛 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑿; 𐑚𐑴𐑔 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑕 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑥𐑰. 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑮𐑧𐑛 𐑘𐑰 𐑚𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑥𐑻𐑒𐑦 𐑤𐑲𐑑 𐑥𐑱 𐑚𐑰 𐑥𐑲𐑯 𐑞 𐑤𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩 𐑑𐑰𐑗𐑩𐑟 𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑼𐑟; 𐑯 𐑞𐑺𐑓𐑹 𐑑 𐑘𐑰, 𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑥𐑹 𐑑 𐑥𐑰, 𐑓 𐑲 𐑨𐑥 𐑩 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑𐑼 𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑘𐑰. 𐑯 𐑯𐑬 𐑣𐑬 𐑜𐑤𐑨𐑛𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑲 𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑-𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑯 𐑕𐑦𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑣𐑨𐑗𐑩𐑟 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑺 𐑿 𐑕𐑦𐑑, 𐑯 𐑤𐑦𐑕𐑩𐑯 𐑨𐑟 𐑿 𐑤𐑦𐑕𐑩𐑯, 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑿 𐑮𐑰𐑛𐑟 <i>𐑥𐑰</i> 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑯 𐑥𐑹 𐑷𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑤𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑗 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩 𐑑𐑰𐑗𐑩𐑟 𐑑 <i>𐑥𐑰</i>, 𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑐𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑙 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛. 𐑣𐑬 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑯 𐑩𐑯𐑶𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑐𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑑-𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑓𐑩𐑑, 𐑹 𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑒𐑼 𐑝 𐑑𐑮𐑵 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑟, 𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 ·𐑤𐑹𐑛 𐑑 𐑕𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑳𐑯𐑢𐑧𐑤𐑒𐑩𐑥 𐑑𐑮𐑵𐑞𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑽𐑟 𐑝 𐑩 𐑢𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑛 ·𐑯𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑝𐑩, ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩, 𐑩𐑐𐑷𐑤𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑣𐑪𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑣𐑰 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑮𐑱𐑟, 𐑓𐑤𐑧𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑯 𐑕𐑷𐑑 𐑑 𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑱𐑐 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑿𐑑𐑦 𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑨𐑑 ·𐑡𐑪𐑐𐑩. 𐑚𐑳𐑑 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛 𐑦𐑟 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦𐑢𐑺; ·𐑑𐑸𐑖𐑦𐑖 𐑣𐑰 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑮𐑰𐑗𐑑. 𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑕𐑰𐑯, ·𐑜𐑪𐑛 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑯 𐑕𐑢𐑪𐑤𐑴𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑑 𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑜𐑳𐑤𐑓𐑕 𐑝 𐑛𐑵𐑥, 𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑓𐑑 𐑕𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑑𐑹 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑙 '𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑰𐑟,' 𐑢𐑺 𐑞 𐑧𐑛𐑦𐑦𐑙 𐑛𐑧𐑐𐑔𐑕 𐑕𐑳𐑒𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑑𐑧𐑯 𐑔𐑬𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑓𐑨𐑞𐑩𐑥𐑟 𐑛𐑬𐑯, 𐑯 '𐑞 𐑢𐑰𐑛𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑮𐑨𐑐𐑑 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑧𐑛,' 𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛 𐑝 𐑢𐑴 𐑚𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑣𐑦𐑥. 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑘𐑪𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑮𐑰𐑗 𐑝 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑐𐑤𐑳𐑥𐑩𐑑—'𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑧𐑤𐑦 𐑝 𐑣𐑧𐑤'—𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑜𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯'𐑟 𐑳𐑑𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑴𐑯𐑟, 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯, ·𐑜𐑪𐑛 𐑣𐑻𐑛 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑜𐑳𐑤𐑓𐑑, 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑓𐑩𐑑 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛. 𐑞𐑧𐑯 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛 𐑕𐑐𐑱𐑒 𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑓𐑦𐑖; 𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑖𐑳𐑛𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑯 𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑰, 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑚𐑮𐑰𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑐 𐑑𐑩𐑢𐑹𐑛𐑟 𐑞 𐑢𐑹𐑥 𐑯 𐑐𐑤𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑯, 𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑺 𐑯 𐑻𐑔; 𐑯 '𐑝𐑪𐑥𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑬𐑑 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑛𐑮𐑲 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛;' 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑤𐑹𐑛 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑩 𐑕𐑧𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑑𐑲𐑥; 𐑯 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩, 𐑚𐑮𐑵𐑟𐑛 𐑯 𐑚𐑰𐑑𐑩𐑯—𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑽𐑟, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑑𐑵 𐑕𐑰-𐑖𐑧𐑤𐑟, 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑥𐑳𐑤𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑥𐑻𐑥𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑞 𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯—·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑞 ·𐑷𐑤𐑥𐑲𐑑𐑦'𐑟 𐑚𐑦𐑛𐑦𐑙. 𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑, 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑥𐑱𐑑𐑕? 𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑰𐑗 𐑞 ·𐑑𐑮𐑵𐑔 𐑑 𐑞 𐑓𐑱𐑕 𐑝 ·𐑓𐑷𐑤𐑕𐑣𐑫𐑛! 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑦𐑑!</p>
    <p>“𐑞𐑦𐑕, 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑥𐑱𐑑𐑕, 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑦𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑤𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑯; 𐑯 𐑢𐑴 𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑐𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑙 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛 𐑣𐑵 𐑕𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑕 𐑦𐑑. 𐑢𐑴 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑣𐑵𐑥 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛 𐑗𐑸𐑥𐑟 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 ·𐑜𐑪𐑕𐑐𐑩𐑤 𐑛𐑿𐑑𐑦! 𐑢𐑴 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑣𐑵 𐑕𐑰𐑒𐑕 𐑑 𐑐𐑹 𐑶𐑤 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑢𐑧𐑯 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑚𐑮𐑵𐑛 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑩 𐑜𐑱𐑤! 𐑢𐑴 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑣𐑵 𐑕𐑰𐑒𐑕 𐑑 𐑐𐑤𐑰𐑟 𐑮𐑭𐑞𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑑 𐑩𐑐𐑷𐑤! 𐑢𐑴 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑣𐑵𐑟 𐑜𐑫𐑛 𐑯𐑱𐑥 𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑹 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑜𐑫𐑛𐑯𐑩𐑕! 𐑢𐑴 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑣𐑵, 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛, 𐑒𐑹𐑑𐑕 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑪𐑯𐑼! 𐑢𐑴 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑣𐑵 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑑𐑮𐑵, 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑞𐑴 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑓𐑷𐑤𐑕 𐑢𐑻 𐑕𐑨𐑤𐑝𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯! 𐑘𐑱, 𐑢𐑴 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑣𐑵, 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 ·𐑐𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑑 ·𐑐𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑑, 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑐𐑮𐑰𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑳𐑞𐑼𐑟 𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑩 𐑒𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑢𐑱!”</p>
    <p>𐑣𐑰 𐑛𐑮𐑪𐑐𐑑 𐑯 𐑓𐑧𐑤 𐑩𐑢𐑱 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑓 𐑩 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑; 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑤𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑱𐑕 𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯, 𐑖𐑴𐑛 𐑩 𐑛𐑰𐑐 𐑡𐑶 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑲𐑟, 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑛 𐑬𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑣𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑔𐑿𐑟𐑦𐑨𐑟𐑩𐑥,—“𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑴! 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑥𐑱𐑑𐑕! 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑸𐑚𐑼𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑝 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑢𐑴, 𐑞𐑺 𐑦𐑟 𐑩 𐑖𐑫𐑼 𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑲𐑑; 𐑯 𐑣𐑲𐑼 𐑞 𐑑𐑪𐑐 𐑝 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑲𐑑, 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑥 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑴 𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑰𐑐. 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑞 𐑥𐑱𐑯-𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑒 𐑣𐑲𐑼 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑧𐑤𐑕𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑴? 𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑲𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥—𐑩 𐑓𐑸, 𐑓𐑸 𐑳𐑐𐑢𐑼𐑛, 𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑢𐑼𐑛 𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑲𐑑—𐑣𐑵 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑬𐑛 𐑜𐑪𐑛𐑟 𐑯 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑛𐑹𐑟 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑻𐑔, 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑓𐑹𐑔 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓. 𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑲𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑣𐑵𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑪𐑙 𐑸𐑥𐑟 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑹𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑚𐑱𐑕 𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑗𐑼𐑩𐑕 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑜𐑪𐑯 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑯𐑰𐑔 𐑣𐑦𐑥. 𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑲𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑣𐑵 𐑜𐑦𐑝𐑟 𐑯𐑴 𐑒𐑢𐑹𐑑𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑑𐑮𐑵𐑔, 𐑯 𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑟, 𐑚𐑻𐑯𐑟, 𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑶𐑟 𐑷𐑤 𐑕𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑴 𐑣𐑰 𐑐𐑤𐑳𐑒 𐑦𐑑 𐑬𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑞 𐑮𐑴𐑚𐑟 𐑝 ·𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑩𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑯 ·𐑡𐑳𐑡𐑩𐑟. 𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑲𐑑,—𐑑𐑪𐑐-𐑜𐑨𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑲𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑣𐑵 𐑩𐑒𐑯𐑪𐑤𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑟 𐑯𐑴 𐑤𐑷 𐑹 𐑤𐑹𐑛, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑤𐑹𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛, 𐑯 𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑩 𐑐𐑨𐑑𐑮𐑾𐑑 𐑑 𐑣𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯. 𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑲𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑣𐑵𐑥 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑝𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑴𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑰𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑶𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑩𐑕 𐑥𐑪𐑚 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑖𐑱𐑒 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑖𐑫𐑼 ·𐑒𐑰𐑤 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑱𐑡𐑩𐑟. 𐑯 𐑦𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑲𐑑 𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑕𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑚𐑰 𐑣𐑦𐑟, 𐑣𐑵 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑤𐑱 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑛𐑬𐑯, 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑕𐑱 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑚𐑮𐑧𐑔—𐑴 ·𐑓𐑭𐑞𐑼!—𐑗𐑰𐑓𐑤𐑦 𐑯𐑴𐑯 𐑑 𐑥𐑰 𐑚𐑲 ·𐑞𐑲 𐑮𐑪𐑛—𐑥𐑹𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑹 𐑦𐑥𐑹𐑑𐑩𐑤, 𐑣𐑽 𐑲 𐑛𐑲. 𐑲 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 ·𐑞𐑲𐑯, 𐑥𐑹 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛'𐑟, 𐑹 𐑥𐑲𐑯 𐑴𐑯. 𐑘𐑧𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑳𐑔𐑦𐑙: 𐑲 𐑤𐑰𐑝 𐑦𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑑 ·𐑞𐑰; 𐑓 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑨𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑤𐑦𐑝 𐑬𐑑 𐑞 𐑤𐑲𐑓𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛?”</p>
    <p>𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑯𐑴 𐑥𐑹, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑤𐑴𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑱𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑚𐑧𐑯𐑦𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑒𐑳𐑝𐑼𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑱𐑕 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟, 𐑯 𐑕𐑴 𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑱𐑯𐑛 𐑯𐑰𐑤𐑦𐑙, 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑐𐑰𐑐𐑩𐑤 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑛𐑦𐑐𐑸𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑤𐑧𐑓𐑑 𐑩𐑤𐑴𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕.</p>
  </body>
</html>
