<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Chapter 30</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="chapter-30" xml:lang="en-US">
      <h2 id="chapterheader-30">·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 30. 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑲𐑐.</h2>
    </div>
    <p>𐑢𐑧𐑯 ·𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑚 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑛𐑦𐑐𐑸𐑑𐑩𐑛, ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑕𐑑𐑫𐑛 𐑓 𐑩 𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑤𐑰𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑞 𐑚𐑫𐑤𐑢𐑼𐑒𐑕; 𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑨𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑿𐑠𐑵𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑝 𐑤𐑱𐑑, 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑕𐑱𐑤𐑼 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑪𐑗, 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑴 𐑓 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑲𐑝𐑼𐑦 𐑕𐑑𐑵𐑤, 𐑯 𐑷𐑤𐑕𐑴 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑲𐑐. 𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑐𐑲𐑐 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑒𐑩𐑤 𐑤𐑨𐑥𐑐 𐑯 𐑐𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑵𐑤 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 𐑛𐑧𐑒, 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑨𐑑 𐑯 𐑕𐑥𐑴𐑒𐑑.</p>
    <p>𐑦𐑯 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑯𐑹𐑕 𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟, 𐑞 𐑔𐑮𐑴𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑰-𐑤𐑳𐑝𐑦𐑙 ·𐑛𐑱𐑯𐑦𐑖 𐑒𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑓𐑨𐑚𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑕𐑧𐑔 𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑛𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑝 𐑞 𐑑𐑳𐑕𐑒𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑯𐑸𐑢𐑪𐑤. 𐑣𐑬 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑨𐑑 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑞𐑧𐑯, 𐑕𐑰𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑪𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑐𐑪𐑛 𐑝 𐑚𐑴𐑯𐑟, 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑝 𐑞 𐑮𐑶𐑩𐑤𐑑𐑦 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑦𐑥𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑲𐑟𐑛? 𐑓 𐑩 ·𐑒𐑭𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑐𐑤𐑨𐑙𐑒, 𐑯 𐑩 𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑰, 𐑯 𐑩 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑤𐑹𐑛 𐑝 ·𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑢𐑪𐑟 ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚.</p>
    <p>𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑐𐑭𐑕𐑑, 𐑛𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑞 𐑔𐑦𐑒 𐑝𐑱𐑐𐑼 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑬𐑔 𐑦𐑯 𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑒 𐑯 𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑐𐑳𐑓𐑕, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑚𐑤𐑵 𐑚𐑨𐑒 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑱𐑕. “𐑣𐑬 𐑯𐑬,” 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑤𐑩𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑟𐑛 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑑, 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑛𐑮𐑷𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑑𐑿𐑚, “𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑕𐑥𐑴𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑯𐑴 𐑤𐑪𐑙𐑜𐑼 𐑕𐑵𐑞𐑟. 𐑴, 𐑥𐑲 𐑐𐑲𐑐! 𐑣𐑸𐑛 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑜𐑴 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑥𐑰 𐑦𐑓 𐑞𐑲 𐑗𐑸𐑥 𐑚𐑰 𐑜𐑪𐑯! 𐑣𐑽 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑲 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑳𐑯𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑑𐑶𐑤𐑦𐑙, 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑐𐑤𐑧𐑠𐑼𐑦𐑙—𐑲, 𐑯 𐑦𐑜𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑥𐑴𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑢𐑼𐑛 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑢𐑲𐑤; 𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑢𐑼𐑛, 𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑯𐑻𐑝𐑩𐑕 𐑢𐑦𐑓𐑕, 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑓, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑞 𐑛𐑲𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑥𐑲 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑡𐑧𐑑𐑕 𐑢𐑻 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑪𐑙𐑜𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑯 𐑓𐑫𐑤𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑚𐑩𐑤. 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑟𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑲 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑐𐑲𐑐? 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑓 𐑕𐑼𐑰𐑯𐑯𐑩𐑕, 𐑑 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑳𐑐 𐑥𐑲𐑤𐑛 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑝𐑱𐑐𐑼𐑟 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑥𐑲𐑤𐑛 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑣𐑺𐑟, 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑑𐑹𐑯 𐑲𐑼𐑯-𐑜𐑮𐑱 𐑤𐑪𐑒𐑕 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑥𐑲𐑯. 𐑲'𐑤 𐑕𐑥𐑴𐑒 𐑯𐑴 𐑥𐑹—”</p>
    <p>𐑣𐑰 𐑑𐑪𐑕𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑐𐑲𐑐 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑕𐑰. 𐑞 𐑓𐑲𐑼 𐑣𐑦𐑕𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑝𐑟; 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑖𐑪𐑑 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑚𐑳𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑞 𐑕𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑐𐑲𐑐 𐑥𐑱𐑛. 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑕𐑤𐑬𐑗𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑑, ·𐑱𐑣𐑨𐑚 𐑤𐑻𐑗𐑦𐑙𐑤𐑦 𐑐𐑱𐑕𐑑 𐑞 𐑐𐑤𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑕.</p>
  </body>
</html>
