<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>·𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑕. (𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑤𐑲𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑩 ·𐑕𐑳𐑚-·𐑕𐑳𐑚-·𐑤𐑲𐑚𐑮𐑺𐑾𐑯).</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="extracts" xml:lang="en-US">
      <h2 id="extractsheader">·𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑕. (𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑤𐑲𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑩 ·𐑕𐑳𐑚-·𐑕𐑳𐑚-·𐑤𐑲𐑚𐑮𐑺𐑾𐑯). </h2>
    </div>
    <p>𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑚𐑰 𐑕𐑰𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑥𐑽 𐑐𐑱𐑯𐑟𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑳𐑮𐑴𐑼 𐑯 𐑜𐑮𐑳𐑚-𐑢𐑻𐑥 𐑝 𐑩 𐑐𐑫𐑼 𐑛𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑩 ·𐑕𐑳𐑚-·𐑕𐑳𐑚 𐑩𐑐𐑽𐑟 𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑜𐑪𐑯 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑞 𐑤𐑪𐑙 ·𐑝𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑰𐑑-𐑕𐑑𐑷𐑤𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑻𐑔, 𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑐 𐑢𐑪𐑑𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑥 𐑩𐑤𐑵𐑠𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑧𐑯𐑦𐑢𐑱𐑟 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑚𐑫𐑒 𐑢𐑪𐑑𐑕𐑴𐑧𐑝𐑼, 𐑕𐑱𐑒𐑮𐑩𐑛 𐑹 𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑓𐑱𐑯. 𐑞𐑺𐑓𐑹 𐑿 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑯𐑪𐑑, 𐑦𐑯 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑒𐑱𐑕 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑰𐑕𐑑, 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑜𐑩𐑤𐑛𐑦-𐑐𐑦𐑜𐑩𐑤𐑛𐑦 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑑𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕, 𐑣𐑬𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑷𐑔𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑒, 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑕, 𐑓 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑜𐑪𐑕𐑐𐑩𐑤 ·𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑡𐑦. 𐑓𐑸 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑦𐑑. 𐑨𐑟 𐑑𐑳𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑱𐑯𐑗𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑷𐑔𐑼𐑟 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑤𐑦, 𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑐𐑴𐑩𐑑𐑕 𐑣𐑽 𐑩𐑐𐑽𐑦𐑙, 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑕 𐑸 𐑕𐑴𐑤𐑦 𐑝𐑨𐑤𐑿𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑹 𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑑𐑱𐑯𐑦𐑙, 𐑨𐑟 𐑩𐑓𐑹𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑜𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑚𐑻𐑛𐑟 𐑲 𐑝𐑿 𐑝 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑿𐑩𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑧𐑛, 𐑔𐑷𐑑, 𐑓𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑛, 𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑙 𐑝 ·𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯, 𐑚𐑲 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑯𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑯 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟, 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑤𐑵𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑼 𐑴𐑯.</p>
    <p>𐑕𐑴 𐑓𐑺 𐑞𐑰 𐑢𐑧𐑤, 𐑐𐑫𐑼 𐑛𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑩 ·𐑕𐑳𐑚-·𐑕𐑳𐑚, 𐑣𐑵𐑟 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑱𐑑𐑼 𐑲 𐑨𐑥. 𐑞𐑬 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑪𐑙𐑜𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑴𐑐𐑤𐑩𐑕, 𐑕𐑨𐑤𐑴 𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑚 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑯𐑴 𐑢𐑲𐑯 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑢𐑹𐑥; 𐑯 𐑓 𐑣𐑵𐑥 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 ·𐑐𐑱𐑤 ·𐑖𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑚𐑰 𐑑𐑵 𐑮𐑴𐑟𐑦-𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑪𐑙; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑵𐑥 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑤𐑳𐑝𐑟 𐑑 𐑕𐑦𐑑, 𐑯 𐑓𐑰𐑤 𐑐𐑫𐑼-𐑛𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑖, 𐑑𐑵; 𐑯 𐑜𐑮𐑴 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑝𐑦𐑝𐑾𐑤 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑑𐑽𐑟; 𐑯 𐑕𐑱 𐑑 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑓𐑫𐑤 𐑲𐑟 𐑯 𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑑𐑦 𐑜𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑩𐑟, 𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑷𐑤𐑑𐑩𐑜𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑳𐑯𐑐𐑤𐑧𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑕𐑨𐑛𐑯𐑩𐑕—𐑜𐑦𐑝 𐑦𐑑 𐑳𐑐, ·𐑕𐑳𐑚-·𐑕𐑳𐑚𐑟! 𐑓 𐑚𐑲 𐑣𐑬 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑞 𐑥𐑹 𐑐𐑱𐑯𐑟 𐑘𐑰 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑑 𐑐𐑤𐑰𐑟 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛, 𐑚𐑲 𐑕𐑴 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑞 𐑥𐑹 𐑖𐑨𐑤 𐑘𐑰 𐑓 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑜𐑴 𐑔𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑤𐑩𐑕! 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑲 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑒𐑤𐑽 𐑬𐑑 ·𐑣𐑨𐑥𐑐𐑑𐑩𐑯 ·𐑒𐑹𐑑 𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑑𐑵𐑦𐑤𐑼𐑦𐑟 𐑓 𐑘𐑰! 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑜𐑳𐑤𐑐 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑘𐑹 𐑑𐑽𐑟 𐑯 𐑣𐑲 𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑓𐑑 𐑑 𐑞 𐑮𐑶𐑩𐑤-𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑘𐑹 𐑣𐑸𐑑𐑕; 𐑓 𐑘𐑹 𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑣𐑵 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑜𐑪𐑯 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑸 𐑒𐑤𐑽𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯-𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑦𐑛 𐑣𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯𐑟, 𐑯 𐑥𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑮𐑧𐑓𐑿𐑡𐑰𐑟 𐑝 𐑤𐑪𐑙-𐑐𐑨𐑥𐑐𐑼𐑛 ·𐑜𐑱𐑚𐑮𐑦𐑩𐑤, ·𐑥𐑦𐑒𐑲𐑧𐑤, 𐑯 ·𐑮𐑨𐑓𐑲𐑧𐑤, 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯𐑕𐑑 𐑘𐑹 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑦𐑙. 𐑣𐑽 𐑘𐑰 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑒 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑤𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑛 𐑣𐑸𐑑𐑕 𐑑𐑩𐑜𐑧𐑞𐑼—𐑞𐑺, 𐑘𐑰 𐑖𐑨𐑤 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑒 𐑳𐑯𐑕𐑐𐑤𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑜𐑤𐑭𐑕𐑩𐑟!</p>

    <p class="centre">———————</p>

    <p>“𐑯 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛 𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟.”</p>
    <p class="author">—·𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑩𐑕𐑦𐑕.</p>

    <p>“·𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯 𐑥𐑱𐑒𐑩𐑔 𐑩 𐑐𐑭𐑔 𐑑 𐑖𐑲𐑯 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑣𐑦𐑥; 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑞 𐑛𐑰𐑐 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑣𐑹𐑦.”</p>
    <p class="author">—·𐑡𐑪𐑚.</p>

    <p>“𐑯𐑬 𐑞 ·𐑤𐑹𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑺𐑛 𐑩 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑓𐑦𐑖 𐑑 𐑕𐑢𐑪𐑤𐑴 𐑳𐑐 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩.”</p>
    <p class="author">—·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩.</p>

    <p>“𐑞𐑺 𐑜𐑴 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑕; 𐑞𐑺 𐑦𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 ·𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑵𐑥 𐑞𐑬 𐑣𐑨𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑑 𐑐𐑤𐑱 𐑞𐑺𐑦𐑯.”</p>
    <p class="author">—·𐑕𐑭𐑥𐑟.</p>

    <p>“𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑛𐑱, 𐑞 ·𐑤𐑹𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑹, 𐑯 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑, 𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑪𐑙 𐑕𐑹𐑛, 𐑖𐑨𐑤 𐑐𐑳𐑯𐑦𐑖 ·𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯 𐑞 𐑐𐑽𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑻𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑑, 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 ·𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑒𐑮𐑫𐑒𐑧𐑛 𐑕𐑻𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑑; 𐑯 𐑣𐑰 𐑖𐑨𐑤 𐑕𐑤𐑱 𐑞 𐑛𐑮𐑨𐑜𐑩𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑰.”</p>
    <p class="author">—·𐑲𐑟𐑱𐑩.</p>

    <p>“𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑴𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑚𐑦𐑕𐑲𐑛𐑟 𐑒𐑳𐑥𐑩𐑔 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑱𐑪𐑕 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑥𐑬𐑔, 𐑚𐑰 𐑦𐑑 𐑚𐑰𐑕𐑑, 𐑚𐑴𐑑, 𐑹 𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑯, 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑦𐑑 𐑜𐑴𐑟 𐑷𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑓𐑬𐑤 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑕𐑢𐑪𐑤𐑴 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟, 𐑯 𐑐𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑔 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑪𐑑𐑩𐑥𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑜𐑳𐑤𐑓 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑷𐑯𐑗.”</p>
    <p class="author">—·𐑣𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑟 ·𐑐𐑤𐑵𐑑𐑸𐑒𐑕 ·𐑥𐑪𐑮𐑩𐑤𐑟.</p>

    <p>“𐑞 ·𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑾𐑯 ·𐑕𐑰 𐑚𐑮𐑰𐑛𐑩𐑔 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑦𐑜𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑸: 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑞 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑯 ·𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑐𐑵𐑤𐑕 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛 ·𐑚𐑱𐑤𐑰𐑯, 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑳𐑐 𐑨𐑟 𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑦𐑯 𐑤𐑧𐑙𐑔 𐑨𐑟 𐑓𐑹 𐑱𐑒𐑼𐑟 𐑹 𐑸𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛.”</p>
    <p class="author">—·𐑣𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑟 ·𐑐𐑤𐑦𐑯𐑦.</p>

    <p>“𐑕𐑒𐑺𐑕𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑢𐑰 𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑕𐑰𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑑𐑵 𐑛𐑱𐑟 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑰, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑯𐑮𐑲𐑟 𐑩 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑯 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑰, 𐑩𐑐𐑽𐑛. 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑞 𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑼, 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑝 𐑩 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑕 𐑕𐑲𐑟.... 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑑𐑩𐑢𐑹𐑛𐑟 𐑳𐑕, 𐑴𐑐𐑩𐑯-𐑥𐑬𐑞𐑛, 𐑮𐑱𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑝𐑟 𐑪𐑯 𐑷𐑤 𐑕𐑲𐑛𐑟, 𐑯 𐑚𐑰𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑕𐑰 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑩 𐑓𐑴𐑥.”</p>
    <p class="author">—·𐑑𐑫𐑒𐑕 ·𐑤𐑵𐑕𐑾𐑯. “𐑞 ·𐑑𐑮𐑵 ·𐑣𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑦.”</p>

    <p>“𐑣𐑰 𐑝𐑦𐑟𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑒𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑦 𐑷𐑤𐑕𐑴 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑝𐑿 𐑝 𐑒𐑨𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑹𐑕-𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑴𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑝𐑨𐑤𐑿 𐑓 𐑞𐑺 𐑑𐑰𐑔, 𐑝 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑣𐑰 𐑚𐑮𐑷𐑑 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑑 𐑞 𐑒𐑦𐑙.... 𐑞 𐑚𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑒𐑨𐑗𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑯 𐑒𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑦, 𐑝 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑢𐑻 𐑓𐑹𐑑𐑦-𐑱𐑑, 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑓𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑦 𐑘𐑸𐑛𐑟 𐑤𐑪𐑙. 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑕 𐑣𐑵 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑛 𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑦 𐑦𐑯 𐑑𐑵 𐑛𐑱𐑟.”</p>
    <p class="author">—·𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑹 ·𐑪𐑒𐑞𐑼𐑟 𐑝𐑻𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑯𐑨𐑩𐑑𐑦𐑝 𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑛𐑬𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑬𐑔 𐑚𐑲 ·𐑒𐑦𐑙 ·𐑨𐑤𐑓𐑮𐑩𐑛, ⸰𐑱𐑛 890.</p>

    <p>“𐑯 𐑢𐑺𐑨𐑟 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑟; 𐑢𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑚𐑰𐑕𐑑 𐑹 𐑝𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑤; 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑼 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑛𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑜𐑳𐑤𐑓 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑟 (𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟) 𐑥𐑬𐑔, 𐑸 𐑦𐑥𐑰𐑛𐑾𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑤𐑪𐑕𐑑 𐑯 𐑕𐑢𐑪𐑤𐑴𐑛 𐑳𐑐, 𐑞 𐑕𐑰-𐑜𐑳𐑡𐑩𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑲𐑼𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑕𐑩𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑦𐑑𐑦, 𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐𐑕.”</p>
    <p class="author">—·𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑱𐑯. —𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑡𐑦 𐑓 ·𐑮𐑲𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑛 ·𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑪𐑯𐑛.</p>

    <p>“𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑳𐑕 𐑓𐑤𐑲, 𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑳𐑕 𐑓𐑤𐑲! ·𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑯𐑦𐑒 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑥𐑰 𐑦𐑓 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 ·𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑮𐑲𐑚𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑯𐑴𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑓𐑩𐑑 ·𐑥𐑴𐑟𐑩𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑤𐑲𐑓 𐑝 𐑩 𐑐𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑑 ·𐑡𐑴𐑚.”</p>
    <p class="author">—·𐑮𐑨𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑱.</p>

    <p>“𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑼 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑑𐑵 𐑒𐑸𐑑𐑤𐑴𐑛𐑟.”</p>
    <p class="author">—·𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑟 ·𐑨𐑯𐑩𐑤𐑟.</p>

    <p>“𐑞 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 ·𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑱𐑒𐑩𐑔 𐑞 𐑕𐑰𐑟 𐑑 𐑕𐑰𐑞 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑚𐑶𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑐𐑨𐑯.”</p>
    <p class="author">—𐑤𐑹𐑛 ·𐑚𐑱𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑟 ·𐑝𐑻𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑭𐑥𐑟.</p>

    <p>“𐑑𐑳𐑗𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑕 𐑚𐑳𐑤𐑒 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑹 ·𐑹𐑒 𐑢𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑰𐑝𐑛 𐑯𐑳𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑻𐑑𐑩𐑯. 𐑞𐑱 𐑜𐑮𐑴 𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑰𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑨𐑑, 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑴𐑥𐑳𐑗 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑒𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑶𐑤 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑚𐑰 𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑤.”</p>
    <p class="author">—𐑦𐑚𐑦𐑛. “𐑣𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑝 ·𐑤𐑲𐑓 𐑯 ·𐑛𐑧𐑔.”</p>

    <p>“𐑞 𐑕𐑪𐑝𐑮𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑯 𐑻𐑔 𐑦𐑟 ·𐑐𐑸𐑥𐑩𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑦 𐑓 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑢𐑼𐑛 𐑚𐑮𐑵𐑟.”</p>
    <p class="author">—𐑒𐑦𐑙 ·𐑣𐑧𐑯𐑮𐑦.</p>

    <p>“𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤.”</p>
    <p class="author">—·𐑣𐑨𐑥𐑤𐑩𐑑.</p>

    <p class="quote1">“𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑑 𐑕𐑩𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼, 𐑯𐑴 𐑕𐑒𐑦𐑤 𐑝 𐑤𐑰𐑗𐑩𐑟 𐑸𐑑</p>
    <p class="quoten">𐑥𐑴𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑩𐑝𐑱𐑤, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑑 𐑮𐑩𐑑𐑻𐑯 𐑱𐑜𐑱𐑯</p>
    <p class="quoten">𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑵𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑢𐑻𐑒𐑼, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑤𐑴𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑸𐑑,</p>
    <p class="quoten">𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑, 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑮𐑧𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑮𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑐𐑱𐑯,</p>
    <p class="quoten">𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑢𐑵𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑑 𐑖𐑹 𐑓𐑤𐑲𐑟 𐑔𐑮𐑿 𐑞 𐑥𐑱𐑯.”</p>
    <p class="author">—𐑞 ·𐑓𐑺𐑦 ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑯</p>

    <p>“𐑦𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑕 𐑨𐑟 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟, 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑣𐑵𐑟 𐑝𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑐𐑰𐑕𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑭𐑥 𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑞 𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑦𐑑 𐑚𐑶𐑤.”</p>
    <p class="author">—𐑕𐑻 ·𐑢𐑦𐑤𐑾𐑥 ·𐑛𐑨𐑝𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑯𐑑. 𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑓𐑦𐑕 𐑑 ·𐑜𐑪𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑚𐑺.</p>

    <p>“𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥𐑩𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑦 𐑦𐑟, 𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑡𐑳𐑕𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑬𐑑, 𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑕 𐑞 𐑤𐑻𐑯𐑧𐑛 ·𐑣𐑪𐑟𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑻𐑒 𐑝 𐑔𐑻𐑑𐑦 𐑘𐑽𐑟, 𐑕𐑱𐑧𐑔 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑯𐑤𐑦, <i>·𐑯𐑧𐑕𐑒𐑦𐑴 𐑒𐑢𐑦𐑛 𐑕𐑦𐑑</i>.”</p>
    <p class="author">—𐑕𐑻 ⸰𐑑 𐑚𐑮𐑬𐑯. 𐑝 ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥𐑩 ·𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑦 𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥𐑩 ·𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑦 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤. 𐑝𐑰𐑛𐑱 𐑣𐑦𐑟 ⸰𐑝𐑰.</p>

    <p class="quote1">“𐑤𐑲𐑒 ·𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑕𐑼𐑟 ·𐑑𐑱𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑪𐑛𐑼𐑯 𐑓𐑤𐑱𐑤</p>
    <p class="quoten">𐑣𐑰 𐑔𐑮𐑧𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑮𐑵𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑪𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑩𐑕 𐑑𐑱𐑤.</p>
    <p class="quoten">* * * *</p>
    <p class="quoten">𐑞𐑺 𐑓𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑑 𐑡𐑨𐑝𐑤𐑦𐑯𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑲𐑛 𐑣𐑰 𐑢𐑺𐑟,</p>
    <p class="quoten">𐑯 𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑨𐑒 𐑩 𐑜𐑮𐑴𐑝 𐑝 𐑐𐑲𐑒𐑕 𐑩𐑐𐑽𐑟.”</p>
    <p class="author">—·𐑢𐑷𐑤𐑼𐑟 ·𐑚𐑨𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑼 ·𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑟</p>

    <p>“𐑚𐑲 𐑸𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 ·𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯, 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛 𐑩 ·𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑢𐑧𐑤𐑔 𐑹 ·𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑑—(𐑦𐑯 ·𐑤𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑯, ·𐑕𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑟) 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑩𐑯 𐑸𐑑𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑤 𐑥𐑨𐑯.”</p>
    <p class="author">—𐑴𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑝 ·𐑣𐑪𐑚𐑟𐑩𐑟 ·𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯.</p>

    <p>“𐑕𐑦𐑤𐑦 ·𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑕𐑴𐑤 𐑕𐑢𐑪𐑤𐑴𐑛 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑 𐑗𐑵𐑦𐑙, 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑓 𐑦𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑩 𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑬𐑔 𐑝 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤.”</p>
    <p class="author">—𐑐𐑦𐑤𐑜𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑟 ·𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑜𐑮𐑧𐑕.</p>

    <p class="quote1">“𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑰 𐑚𐑰𐑕𐑑</p>
    <p class="quoten">·𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑢𐑻𐑒𐑕</p>
    <p class="quoten">·𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑣𐑿𐑡𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑥 𐑞 𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑰𐑥.”</p>
    <p class="author">—𐑐𐑨𐑮𐑩𐑛𐑲𐑕 ·𐑤𐑪𐑕𐑑.</p>

    <p class="quote1">“𐑞𐑺 ·𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯,</p>
    <p class="quoten">·𐑣𐑿𐑡𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑒𐑮𐑰𐑗𐑼𐑟, 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑛𐑰𐑐</p>
    <p class="quoten">·𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑗𐑑 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑕𐑤𐑰𐑐𐑕 𐑹 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑥𐑟,</p>
    <p class="quoten">𐑯 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑟 𐑩 𐑥𐑵𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛; 𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑜𐑦𐑤𐑟</p>
    <p class="quoten">·𐑛𐑮𐑷𐑟 𐑦𐑯, 𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑮𐑧𐑔 𐑕𐑐𐑬𐑑𐑕 𐑬𐑑 𐑩 𐑕𐑰.”</p>
    <p class="author">—𐑦𐑚𐑦𐑛.</p>

    <p>“𐑞 𐑥𐑲𐑑𐑦 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑥 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑕𐑰 𐑝 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼, 𐑯 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑩 𐑕𐑰 𐑝 𐑶𐑤 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑥.”</p>
    <p class="author">—𐑓𐑫𐑤𐑼𐑟 ·𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑓𐑱𐑯 𐑯 ·𐑣𐑴𐑤𐑦 ·𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑑.</p>

    <p class="quote1">“𐑕𐑴 𐑒𐑤𐑴𐑕 𐑚𐑦𐑣𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑤𐑲</p>
    <p class="quoten">𐑞 𐑣𐑿𐑡 ·𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑑 𐑩𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑞𐑺 𐑐𐑮𐑱,</p>
    <p class="quoten">𐑯 𐑜𐑦𐑝 𐑯𐑴 𐑗𐑱𐑕, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑕𐑢𐑪𐑤𐑴 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑮𐑲,</p>
    <p class="quoten">𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑞𐑺 𐑜𐑱𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑡𐑷𐑟 𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑞 𐑢𐑱.”</p>
    <p class="author">—·𐑛𐑮𐑲𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑟 ·𐑨𐑯𐑩𐑕 ·𐑥𐑼𐑨𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑕</p>

    <p>“𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑤𐑴𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑻𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐, 𐑞𐑱 𐑒𐑳𐑑 𐑪𐑓 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑧𐑛, 𐑯 𐑑𐑴 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑚𐑴𐑑 𐑨𐑟 𐑯𐑽 𐑞 𐑖𐑹 𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑒𐑳𐑥; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑚𐑰 𐑩𐑜𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑑𐑢𐑧𐑤𐑝 𐑹 𐑔𐑻𐑑𐑰𐑯 𐑓𐑰𐑑 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼.”</p>
    <p class="author">—·𐑑𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑕 ·𐑧𐑡𐑩𐑟 ·𐑑𐑧𐑯 ·𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑟 𐑑 ·𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑑𐑕𐑚𐑼𐑜𐑩𐑯, 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑐𐑻𐑗𐑩𐑟.</p>

    <p>“𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑢𐑱 𐑞𐑱 𐑕𐑷 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑕𐑐𐑹𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑢𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑓𐑳𐑟𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑐 𐑞 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑞𐑺 𐑐𐑲𐑐𐑕 𐑯 𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑕, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑯𐑱𐑗𐑼 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑕𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑖𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑼𐑟.”</p>
    <p class="author">—𐑕𐑻 T. 𐑣𐑻𐑚𐑼𐑑𐑕 ·𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 ·𐑱𐑖𐑩 𐑯 ·𐑨𐑓𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩. ·𐑣𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑕 ·𐑒𐑪𐑤.</p>

    <p>“𐑣𐑽 𐑞𐑱 𐑕𐑷 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑣𐑿𐑡 𐑑𐑮𐑵𐑐𐑕 𐑝 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑱 𐑢𐑻 𐑓𐑹𐑕𐑑 𐑑 𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑕𐑰𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑛𐑰𐑤 𐑝 𐑒𐑷𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑓 𐑓𐑽 𐑞𐑱 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑮𐑳𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞𐑧𐑥.”</p>
    <p class="author">—·𐑖𐑬𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑟 ·𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑔 ·𐑕𐑻𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑯𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑜𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯.</p>

    <p>“𐑢𐑰 𐑕𐑧𐑑 𐑕𐑱𐑤 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 ·𐑧𐑤𐑚𐑩, 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛 N.E. 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑒𐑷𐑤𐑛 𐑞 ·𐑡𐑴𐑯𐑩𐑕-𐑦𐑯-𐑞-·𐑢𐑱𐑤.... 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑕𐑱 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑒𐑭𐑯𐑑 𐑴𐑐𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑥𐑬𐑔, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑩 𐑓𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤.... 𐑞𐑱 𐑓𐑮𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑤𐑲𐑥 𐑳𐑐 𐑞 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑕 𐑑 𐑕𐑰 𐑢𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑞𐑱 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑕𐑰 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑓 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑳𐑝𐑼𐑼 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑛𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑 𐑓 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑐𐑱𐑯𐑟.... 𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑑𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑝 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑯𐑽 ·𐑖𐑧𐑑𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑩𐑚𐑳𐑝 𐑩 𐑚𐑨𐑮𐑩𐑤 𐑝 𐑣𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑧𐑤𐑦.... 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑝 𐑬𐑼 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽𐑟 𐑑𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑥𐑰 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑰 𐑒𐑷𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑕𐑐𐑦𐑑𐑕𐑚𐑼𐑜𐑩𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑢𐑲𐑑 𐑷𐑤 𐑴𐑝𐑼.”</p>
    <p class="author">—𐑩 ·𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡 𐑑 ·𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑯𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛, ⸰𐑱𐑛 1671.·𐑣𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑕 ·𐑒𐑪𐑤.</p>

    <p>“𐑕𐑧𐑝𐑼𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑒𐑳𐑥 𐑦𐑯 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑒𐑴𐑕𐑑 (·𐑓𐑲𐑓) ·𐑭𐑯𐑴 1652, 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑱𐑑𐑦 𐑓𐑰𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑤𐑧𐑙𐑔 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑚𐑴𐑯 𐑒𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑦𐑯, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 (𐑨𐑟 𐑲 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑛), 𐑚𐑦𐑕𐑲𐑛𐑟 𐑩 𐑝𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑶𐑤, 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑩𐑓𐑹𐑛 500 𐑢𐑱𐑑 𐑝 𐑚𐑩𐑤𐑰𐑯. 𐑞 𐑡𐑷𐑟 𐑝 𐑦𐑑 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑓 𐑩 𐑜𐑱𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑜𐑸𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑝 ·𐑐𐑦𐑑𐑓𐑧𐑮𐑩𐑯.”</p>
    <p class="author">—·𐑕𐑦𐑚𐑨𐑤𐑑𐑕 ·𐑓𐑲𐑓 𐑯 ·𐑒𐑦𐑯𐑮𐑪𐑕.</p>
    
    <p>“𐑥𐑲𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑩𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑛 𐑑 𐑑𐑮𐑲 𐑢𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑲 𐑒𐑨𐑯 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑𐑼 𐑯 𐑒𐑦𐑤 𐑞𐑦𐑕 ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥𐑩-·𐑕𐑰𐑑𐑲 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑓 𐑲 𐑒𐑫𐑛 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑣𐑽 𐑝 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑝 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑹𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑥𐑨𐑯, 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑽𐑕𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑯 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑯𐑩𐑕.”</p>
    <p class="author">—·𐑮𐑦𐑗𐑼𐑛 ·𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑓𐑼𐑛𐑟 ·𐑤𐑧𐑑𐑼 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 ·𐑚𐑼𐑥𐑿𐑛𐑩𐑟. 𐑓𐑦𐑤. 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑟. ⸰𐑱𐑛 1668.</p>
    
    <p>“𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑰 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛𐑟 𐑝𐑶𐑕 𐑴𐑚𐑱.”</p>
    <p class="author">—N. 𐑰. 𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑥𐑼.</p>
   
    <p>“𐑢𐑰 𐑕𐑷 𐑷𐑤𐑕𐑴 𐑩𐑚𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑝 𐑤𐑸𐑡 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟, 𐑞𐑺 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑥𐑹 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑞𐑼𐑯 𐑕𐑰𐑟, 𐑨𐑟 𐑲 𐑥𐑱 𐑕𐑱, 𐑚𐑲 𐑩 𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑛 𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯; 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑢𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑓 𐑑 𐑞 𐑯𐑹𐑔𐑢𐑼𐑛 𐑝 𐑳𐑕.”</p>
    <p class="author">—𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯 ·𐑒𐑬𐑤𐑰𐑟 ·𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑞 ·𐑜𐑤𐑴𐑚, ⸰𐑱𐑛 1729.</p>

    <p>“... 𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑮𐑧𐑔 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑦𐑟 𐑓𐑮𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑩𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑕𐑳𐑗 𐑩𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑹𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑕𐑥𐑧𐑤, 𐑨𐑟 𐑑 𐑚𐑮𐑦𐑙 𐑪𐑯 𐑩 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑹𐑛𐑼 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑯.”</p>
    <p class="author">—·𐑵𐑘𐑴𐑟 ·𐑕𐑬𐑔 ·𐑩𐑥𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩.</p>

    <p class="quote1">“𐑑 𐑓𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑦 𐑗𐑴𐑟𐑩𐑯 𐑕𐑦𐑤𐑓𐑕 𐑝 𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑤 𐑯𐑴𐑑,</p>
    <p class="quoten">𐑢𐑰 𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑞 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑹𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑗𐑸𐑡, 𐑞 𐑐𐑧𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑴𐑑.</p>
    <p class="quoten">𐑪𐑓𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑢𐑰 𐑯𐑴𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯-𐑓𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑓𐑧𐑯𐑕 𐑑 𐑓𐑱𐑤,</p>
    <p class="quoten">·𐑞𐑴 𐑕𐑑𐑳𐑓𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑵𐑐𐑕 𐑯 𐑸𐑥𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑚𐑟 𐑝 𐑢𐑱𐑤.”</p>
    <p class="author">—𐑮𐑱𐑐 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑤𐑪𐑒</p>

    <p>“𐑦𐑓 𐑢𐑰 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑺 𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑒𐑑 𐑑 𐑥𐑨𐑜𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑳𐑐 𐑞𐑺 𐑩𐑚𐑴𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑛𐑰𐑐, 𐑢𐑰 𐑖𐑨𐑤 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑞𐑱 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑩𐑐𐑽 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑧𐑥𐑐𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑩𐑯. 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑦𐑟 𐑛𐑬𐑑𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑞 𐑤𐑸𐑡𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯.”</p>
    <p class="author">—𐑜𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑕𐑥𐑦𐑔, ·𐑯𐑨𐑑. 𐑣𐑦𐑕𐑑.</p>

    <p>“𐑦𐑓 𐑿 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑮𐑲𐑑 𐑩 𐑓𐑱𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑓 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑟, 𐑿 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑒 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟.”</p>
    <p class="author">—𐑜𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑕𐑥𐑦𐑔 𐑑 ·𐑡𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑯.</p>

    <p>“𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼𐑯𐑵𐑯 𐑢𐑰 𐑕𐑷 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑩𐑐𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑩 𐑮𐑪𐑒, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑩 𐑛𐑧𐑛 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑕𐑳𐑥 ·𐑱𐑠𐑦𐑨𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑕 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑛, 𐑯 𐑢𐑻 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑑𐑴𐑦𐑙 𐑩𐑖𐑹. 𐑞𐑱 𐑕𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑑 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑰𐑤 𐑞𐑧𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑝𐑟 𐑚𐑦𐑣𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑦𐑯 𐑹𐑛𐑼 𐑑 𐑩𐑝𐑶𐑛 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑰𐑯 𐑚𐑲 𐑳𐑕.”</p>
    <p class="author">—𐑒𐑫𐑒𐑕 ·𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑟.</p>

    <p>“𐑞 𐑤𐑸𐑡𐑼 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟, 𐑞𐑱 𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑛𐑩𐑥 𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑗𐑼 𐑑 𐑩𐑑𐑨𐑒. 𐑞𐑱 𐑕𐑑𐑨𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑕𐑴 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑛𐑮𐑧𐑛 𐑝 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑝 𐑞𐑧𐑥, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑬𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑰 𐑞𐑱 𐑸 𐑩𐑓𐑮𐑱𐑛 𐑑 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑰𐑝𐑩𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑯𐑱𐑥𐑟, 𐑯 𐑒𐑨𐑮𐑦 𐑛𐑳𐑙, 𐑤𐑲𐑥-𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑯, 𐑡𐑵𐑯𐑦𐑐𐑼-𐑢𐑫𐑛, 𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑳𐑞𐑼 𐑸𐑑𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑯𐑱𐑗𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑞𐑺 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕, 𐑦𐑯 𐑹𐑛𐑼 𐑑 𐑑𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑓𐑲 𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑞𐑺 𐑑𐑵 𐑯𐑽 𐑩𐑐𐑮𐑴𐑗.”</p>
    <p class="author">—𐑵𐑯𐑴 ·𐑝𐑪𐑯 ·𐑑𐑮𐑶𐑤𐑟 ·𐑤𐑧𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑪𐑯 ·𐑚𐑨𐑙𐑒𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑯 ·𐑕𐑴𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑟 ·𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡 𐑑 ·𐑲𐑕𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑦𐑯 1772.</p>

    <p>“𐑞 ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥𐑩𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑦 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑓𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑴𐑦𐑕, 𐑦𐑟 𐑩𐑯 𐑨𐑒𐑑𐑦𐑝, 𐑓𐑽𐑕 𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑤, 𐑯 𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑢𐑲𐑼𐑟 𐑝𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑩𐑛𐑮𐑧𐑕 𐑯 𐑚𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑯𐑩𐑕 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑥𐑧𐑯.”</p>
    <p class="author">—·𐑑𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑕 ·𐑡𐑧𐑓𐑼𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑟 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 ·𐑥𐑩𐑥𐑹𐑾𐑤 𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑯𐑗 𐑥𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑼 𐑦𐑯 1778.</p>

    <p>“𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑱, 𐑕𐑻, 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛 𐑦𐑟 𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑩𐑤 𐑑 𐑦𐑑?”</p>
    <p class="author">—·𐑧𐑛𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑛 ·𐑚𐑻𐑒𐑕 𐑮𐑧𐑓𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑐𐑸𐑤𐑩𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑 𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤-·𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑦.</p>

    <p>“𐑕𐑐𐑱𐑯—𐑩 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑖𐑹𐑟 𐑝 ·𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑩𐑐.”</p>
    <p class="author">—·𐑧𐑛𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑛 ·𐑚𐑻𐑒. (𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑢𐑺.)</p>

    <p>“𐑩 𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑔 𐑚𐑮𐑭𐑯𐑗 𐑝 𐑞 𐑒𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑹𐑛𐑦𐑯𐑼𐑦 𐑮𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯𐑿, 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑜𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑼𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑜𐑸𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑑𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑕𐑰𐑟 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑐𐑲𐑮𐑩𐑑𐑕 𐑯 𐑮𐑪𐑚𐑼𐑟, 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑮𐑲𐑑 𐑑 <i>𐑮𐑶𐑩𐑤</i> 𐑓𐑦𐑖, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑸 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑻𐑡𐑩𐑯. 𐑯 𐑞𐑰𐑟, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑲𐑞𐑼 𐑔𐑮𐑴𐑯 𐑩𐑖𐑹 𐑹 𐑒𐑷𐑑 𐑯𐑽 𐑞 𐑒𐑴𐑕𐑑, 𐑸 𐑞 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑐𐑼𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑞 𐑒𐑦𐑙.”</p>
    <p class="author">—𐑚𐑤𐑨𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑯.</p>

    <p class="quote1">“𐑕𐑵𐑯 𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑐𐑹𐑑 𐑝 𐑛𐑧𐑔 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑟 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑺:</p>
    <p class="quoten">·𐑮𐑪𐑛𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑛 𐑳𐑯𐑻𐑦𐑙 𐑴𐑼 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑕𐑩𐑕𐑐𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑟</p>
    <p class="quoten">𐑞 𐑚𐑸𐑚𐑛 𐑕𐑑𐑰𐑤, 𐑯 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑑𐑻𐑯 𐑩𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑟.”</p>
    <p class="author">—𐑓𐑷𐑤𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑼𐑟 ·𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑒.</p>

    <p class="quote1">“𐑚𐑮𐑲𐑑 𐑖𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑮𐑵𐑓𐑕, 𐑞 𐑛𐑴𐑥𐑟, 𐑞 𐑕𐑐𐑲𐑼𐑟,</p>
    <p class="quoten">𐑯 𐑮𐑪𐑒𐑩𐑑𐑕 𐑚𐑤𐑵 𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑛𐑮𐑦𐑝𐑩𐑯,</p>
    <p class="quoten">𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑙 𐑞𐑺 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑓𐑲𐑼</p>
    <p class="quoten">·𐑼𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑞 𐑝𐑷𐑤𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑧𐑝𐑩𐑯.</p>
    <p class="quoten"></p>
    <p class="quote1">“𐑕𐑴 𐑓𐑲𐑼 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼 𐑑 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑐𐑺,</p>
    <p class="quoten">𐑞 𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑕𐑻𐑝𐑟 𐑪𐑯 𐑣𐑲,</p>
    <p class="quoten">𐑳𐑐-𐑕𐑐𐑬𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑺,</p>
    <p class="quoten">𐑑 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑕 𐑳𐑯𐑢𐑰𐑤𐑛𐑦 𐑡𐑶.”</p>
    <p class="author">—·𐑒𐑵𐑐𐑼, 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑢𐑰𐑯𐑟 ·𐑝𐑦𐑟𐑦𐑑 𐑑 ·𐑤𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑯.</p>

    <p>“𐑑𐑧𐑯 𐑹 𐑓𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑰𐑯 𐑜𐑨𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑝 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑛 𐑸 𐑔𐑮𐑴𐑯 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑣𐑸𐑑 𐑨𐑑 𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑴𐑒, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑦𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑕 𐑝𐑦𐑤𐑪𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑦.”</p>
    <p class="author">—𐑡𐑪𐑯 ·𐑣𐑳𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑟 𐑩𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑧𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤. (𐑩 𐑕𐑥𐑷𐑤 𐑕𐑲𐑟𐑛 𐑢𐑳𐑯.)</p>

    <p>“𐑞 𐑱𐑹𐑑𐑩 𐑝 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑦𐑟 𐑤𐑸𐑡𐑼 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑹 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑱𐑯 𐑐𐑲𐑐 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼-𐑢𐑻𐑒𐑕 𐑨𐑑 ·𐑤𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑯 ·𐑚𐑮𐑦𐑡, 𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼 𐑮𐑹𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑐𐑨𐑕𐑦𐑡 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑐𐑲𐑐 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑽𐑽 𐑦𐑯 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑕 𐑯 𐑝𐑦𐑤𐑪𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑛 𐑜𐑳𐑖𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑣𐑸𐑑.”</p>
    <p class="author">—𐑐𐑱𐑤𐑰𐑟 ·𐑔𐑦𐑪𐑤𐑩𐑡𐑦.</p>

    <p>“𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑦𐑟 𐑩 𐑥𐑨𐑥𐑦𐑓𐑼𐑩𐑕 𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑 𐑣𐑲𐑯𐑛 𐑓𐑰𐑑.”</p>
    <p class="author">—𐑚𐑨𐑮𐑩𐑯 ·𐑒𐑿𐑝𐑽.</p>

    <p>“𐑦𐑯 40 𐑛𐑦𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑟 𐑕𐑬𐑔, 𐑢𐑰 𐑕𐑷 ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥𐑩𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑦 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑛 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑑𐑱𐑒 𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑞 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑝 𐑥𐑱, 𐑞 𐑕𐑰 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑧𐑯 𐑒𐑳𐑝𐑼𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞𐑧𐑥.”</p>
    <p class="author">—·𐑒𐑴𐑯𐑧𐑑𐑕 ·𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡 𐑓 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑻𐑐𐑩𐑕 𐑝 ·𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥𐑩𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑦 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 ·𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑦.</p>

    <p class="quote1">“𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑮𐑰 𐑧𐑤𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑯𐑰𐑔 𐑥𐑰 𐑕𐑢𐑨𐑥,</p>
    <p class="quoten">·𐑓𐑤𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑛 𐑯 𐑛𐑲𐑝𐑛, 𐑦𐑯 𐑐𐑤𐑱, 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑗𐑱𐑕, 𐑦𐑯 𐑚𐑨𐑑𐑩𐑤,</p>
    <p class="quoten">·𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑟 𐑝 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑒𐑳𐑤𐑼, 𐑓𐑹𐑥, 𐑯 𐑒𐑲𐑯𐑛;</p>
    <p class="quoten">𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑤𐑨𐑙𐑜𐑢𐑦𐑡 𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑐𐑱𐑯𐑑, 𐑯 𐑥𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑯𐑼</p>
    <p class="quoten">·𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑕𐑰𐑯; 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑛𐑮𐑧𐑛 ·𐑤𐑩𐑝𐑲𐑩𐑔𐑩𐑯</p>
    <p class="quoten">𐑑 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑧𐑒𐑑 𐑥𐑦𐑤𐑾𐑯𐑟 𐑐𐑰𐑐𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑢𐑱𐑝:</p>
    <p class="quoten">𐑜𐑨𐑞𐑼𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑖𐑴𐑤𐑟 𐑦𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑕, 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑓𐑤𐑴𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑟,</p>
    <p class="quoten">·𐑤𐑧𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑽𐑾𐑕 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙𐑒𐑑𐑕 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑕𐑑</p>
    <p class="quoten">𐑯 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑒𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑮𐑰𐑡𐑩𐑯, 𐑞𐑴 𐑪𐑯 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑕𐑲𐑛</p>
    <p class="quoten">·𐑩𐑕𐑷𐑤𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑝𐑼𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑕 𐑧𐑯𐑩𐑥𐑦𐑟,</p>
    <p class="quoten">·𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟, 𐑖𐑸𐑒𐑕, 𐑯 𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑟, 𐑸𐑥𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑳𐑯𐑑 𐑹 𐑡𐑷,</p>
    <p class="quoten">𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑕𐑹𐑛𐑟, 𐑕𐑷𐑟, 𐑕𐑐𐑲𐑮𐑩𐑤 𐑣𐑹𐑯𐑟, 𐑹 𐑣𐑫𐑒𐑑 𐑓𐑨𐑙𐑟.”</p>
    <p class="author">—𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑜𐑪𐑥𐑼𐑰𐑟 ·𐑢𐑻𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑞 ·𐑓𐑤𐑳𐑛.</p>

    <p class="quote1">“·𐑲𐑴!  𐑐𐑾𐑯!  ·𐑲𐑴! 𐑕𐑦𐑙.</p>
    <p class="quoten">𐑑 𐑞 𐑓𐑦𐑯𐑦 𐑐𐑰𐑐𐑩𐑤𐑟 𐑒𐑦𐑙.</p>
    <p class="quoten">𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑩 𐑥𐑲𐑑𐑽 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑞𐑦𐑕</p>
    <p class="quoten">𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑝𐑭𐑕𐑑 ·𐑩𐑑𐑤𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑒 𐑦𐑟;</p>
    <p class="quoten">𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑩 𐑓𐑨𐑑𐑼 𐑓𐑦𐑖 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑣𐑰,</p>
    <p class="quoten">·𐑓𐑤𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑟 𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑴𐑤𐑼 ·𐑕𐑰.”</p>
    <p class="quoten"></p>
    <p class="author">—·𐑗𐑸𐑤𐑟 ·𐑤𐑨𐑥𐑟 ·𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑳𐑥𐑓 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤.</p>

    <p>“𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑘𐑽 1690 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑐𐑻𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑪𐑯 𐑩 𐑣𐑲 𐑣𐑦𐑤 𐑩𐑚𐑟𐑻𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑕𐑐𐑬𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑯 𐑕𐑐𐑹𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑰𐑗 𐑳𐑞𐑼, 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑩𐑚𐑟𐑻𐑝𐑛: 𐑞𐑺—𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑑 𐑞 𐑕𐑰—𐑦𐑟 𐑩 𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑯 𐑐𐑭𐑕𐑗𐑼 𐑢𐑺 𐑬𐑼 𐑗𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑜𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑛-𐑗𐑦𐑤𐑛𐑮𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑜𐑴 𐑓 𐑚𐑮𐑧𐑛.”</p>
    <p class="author">—·𐑴𐑚𐑩𐑛 ·𐑥𐑱𐑕𐑰𐑟 ·𐑣𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑝 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑.</p>

    <p>“𐑲 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑑 𐑩 𐑒𐑪𐑑𐑦𐑡 𐑓 ·𐑕𐑵𐑟𐑩𐑯 𐑯 𐑥𐑲𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑯 𐑥𐑱𐑛 𐑩 𐑜𐑱𐑑𐑢𐑱 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑹𐑥 𐑝 𐑩 ·𐑜𐑪𐑔𐑦𐑒 ·𐑸𐑗, 𐑚𐑲 𐑕𐑧𐑑𐑦𐑙 𐑳𐑐 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑡𐑷 𐑚𐑴𐑯𐑟.”</p>
    <p class="author">—𐑣𐑷𐑔𐑹𐑯𐑟 ·𐑑𐑢𐑲𐑕 ·𐑑𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑑𐑱𐑤𐑟.</p>
 
    <p>“𐑖𐑰 𐑒𐑱𐑥 𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑒 𐑩 𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑿𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑓 𐑣𐑻 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑤𐑳𐑝, 𐑣𐑵 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑩𐑕𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒 𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑯𐑴 𐑤𐑧𐑕 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑓𐑹𐑑𐑦 𐑘𐑽𐑟 𐑩𐑜𐑴.”</p>
    <p class="author">—𐑦𐑚𐑦𐑛.</p>
 
    <p>“𐑯𐑴, ·𐑕𐑻, 𐑑𐑦𐑟 𐑩 ·𐑮𐑲𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤,” 𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑼𐑛 ·𐑑𐑪𐑥; “𐑲 𐑕𐑷 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑐𐑮𐑬𐑑; 𐑣𐑰 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑳𐑐 𐑩 𐑐𐑺 𐑝 𐑨𐑟 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑮𐑱𐑯𐑚𐑴𐑟 𐑨𐑟 𐑩 ·𐑒𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑗𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑖 𐑑 𐑤𐑫𐑒 𐑨𐑑 𐑣𐑰𐑟 𐑩 ·𐑮𐑭𐑤 𐑶𐑤-𐑚𐑳𐑑, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑓𐑧𐑤𐑴!”</p>
    <p class="author">—𐑒𐑵𐑐𐑼𐑟 ·𐑐𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑑.</p>
 
    <p>“𐑞 𐑐𐑱𐑐𐑼𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑚𐑮𐑷𐑑 𐑦𐑯, 𐑯 𐑢𐑰 𐑕𐑷 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑚𐑼𐑤𐑦𐑯 ·𐑜𐑩𐑟𐑧𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑛𐑿𐑕𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑑𐑱𐑡 𐑞𐑺.”</p>
    <p class="author">—·𐑧𐑒𐑼𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑟 ·𐑒𐑪𐑯𐑝𐑼𐑕𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑢𐑦𐑞 ·𐑜𐑻𐑑𐑩.</p>

    <p>“𐑥𐑲 ·𐑜𐑪𐑛! ·𐑥𐑼 ·𐑗𐑱𐑕, 𐑢𐑪𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑞 𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑼?” 𐑲 𐑭𐑯𐑕𐑼𐑛, “𐑢𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑝 𐑚𐑲 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤.”</p>
    <p class="author">—“𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑑𐑦𐑝 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑒 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 ·𐑖𐑦𐑐 ·𐑧𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑕 𐑝 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑, 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑩𐑑𐑨𐑒𐑑 𐑯 𐑓𐑲𐑯𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑶𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑩 𐑤𐑸𐑡 ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑐𐑩𐑕𐑦𐑓𐑦𐑒 ·𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯.” 𐑚𐑲 ·𐑴𐑢𐑧𐑯 ·𐑗𐑱𐑕 𐑝 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑, 𐑓𐑻𐑕𐑑 𐑥𐑱𐑑 𐑝 𐑕𐑧𐑛 𐑝𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑤. 𐑯𐑿 ·𐑘𐑹𐑒, 1821.</p>

    <p class="quote1">“𐑩 𐑥𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑯𐑼 𐑕𐑨𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑖𐑮𐑬𐑛𐑟 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑯𐑲𐑑,</p>
    <p class="quoten">𐑞 𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑛 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑐𐑲𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑓𐑮𐑰;</p>
    <p class="quoten">𐑯𐑬 𐑚𐑮𐑲𐑑, 𐑯𐑬 𐑛𐑦𐑥𐑛, 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑥𐑵𐑯𐑤𐑲𐑑 𐑐𐑱𐑤,</p>
    <p class="quoten">𐑯 𐑞 𐑓𐑪𐑕𐑓𐑼 𐑜𐑤𐑰𐑥𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑒 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤,</p>
    <p class="quoten">𐑨𐑟 𐑦𐑑 𐑓𐑤𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑼𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑰.”</p>
    <p class="author">—·𐑦𐑤𐑦𐑟𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑔 ·𐑴𐑒𐑕 ·𐑕𐑥𐑦𐑔.</p>

    <p>“𐑞 𐑒𐑢𐑪𐑯𐑑𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑤𐑲𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑛𐑮𐑷𐑯 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕 𐑦𐑯𐑜𐑱𐑡𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑗𐑼 𐑝 𐑞𐑦𐑕 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑩𐑥𐑬𐑯𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑷𐑤𐑑𐑩𐑜𐑧𐑞𐑼 𐑑 10,440 𐑘𐑸𐑛𐑟 𐑹 𐑯𐑽𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑦𐑒𐑕 ·𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑤𐑦𐑖 𐑥𐑲𐑤𐑟....</p>

    <p>“𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑖𐑱𐑒𐑕 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑑𐑮𐑦𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑕 𐑑𐑱𐑤 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑺, 𐑢𐑦𐑗, 𐑒𐑮𐑨𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑲𐑒 𐑩 𐑢𐑦𐑐, 𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑟 𐑑 𐑞 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑝 𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑹 𐑓𐑹 𐑥𐑲𐑤𐑟.”</p>
    <p class="author">—𐑕𐑒𐑹𐑟𐑚𐑦.</p>

    <p>“𐑥𐑨𐑛 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑨𐑜𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑰 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑻𐑟 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑖 𐑩𐑑𐑨𐑒𐑕, 𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑓𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑦𐑱𐑑𐑩𐑛 ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑮𐑴𐑤𐑟 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑯 𐑴𐑝𐑼; 𐑣𐑰 𐑮𐑽𐑟 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑹𐑥𐑩𐑕 𐑣𐑧𐑛, 𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑢𐑲𐑛 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑡𐑷𐑟 𐑕𐑯𐑨𐑐𐑕 𐑨𐑑 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦𐑔𐑦𐑙 𐑼𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥; 𐑣𐑰 𐑮𐑳𐑖𐑩𐑟 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑧𐑛; 𐑞𐑱 𐑸 𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑐𐑧𐑤𐑛 𐑚𐑦𐑓𐑹 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑝𐑭𐑕𐑑 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑓𐑑𐑯𐑩𐑕, 𐑯 𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑑𐑲𐑥𐑟 𐑳𐑑𐑼𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑶𐑛.... 𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑩 𐑥𐑨𐑑𐑼 𐑝 𐑜𐑮𐑱𐑑 𐑩𐑕𐑑𐑪𐑯𐑦𐑖𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑛𐑼𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑣𐑨𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑕𐑴 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑩𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑙, 𐑯, 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑻𐑖𐑩𐑤 𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑝𐑿, 𐑕𐑴 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑹𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑩𐑯 𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑥𐑩𐑤 (𐑨𐑟 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤) 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑕𐑴 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑲𐑼𐑤𐑦 𐑯𐑦𐑜𐑤𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑩𐑛, 𐑹 𐑖𐑵𐑛 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑲𐑑𐑩𐑛 𐑕𐑴 𐑤𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑤 𐑒𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑦𐑪𐑕𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑞 𐑯𐑿𐑥𐑼𐑩𐑕, 𐑯 𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑦 𐑝 𐑞𐑧𐑥 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑐𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑩𐑚𐑟𐑻𐑝𐑼𐑟, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑝 𐑤𐑱𐑑 𐑘𐑽𐑟, 𐑥𐑳𐑕𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑐𐑩𐑟𐑧𐑕𐑑 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑩𐑚𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑯 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑒𐑩𐑯𐑝𐑰𐑯𐑾𐑯𐑑 𐑪𐑐𐑼𐑑𐑿𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑦𐑟 𐑝 𐑢𐑦𐑑𐑯𐑩𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑞𐑺 𐑣𐑨𐑚𐑦𐑑𐑿𐑛𐑟.”</p>
    <p class="author">—·𐑑𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑕 ·𐑚𐑦𐑱𐑤𐑟 ·𐑣𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑦 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤, 1839.</p>

    <p>“𐑞 ·𐑒𐑨𐑖𐑩𐑤𐑪𐑑” (𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤) “𐑦𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑧𐑑𐑼 𐑸𐑥𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑑𐑮𐑵 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤” (𐑜𐑮𐑰𐑯𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑹 ·𐑮𐑲𐑑 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤) “𐑦𐑯 𐑐𐑩𐑟𐑧𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑩 𐑓𐑹𐑥𐑦𐑛𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑧𐑐𐑩𐑯 𐑨𐑑 𐑲𐑞𐑼 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑧𐑥𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑝 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑚𐑪𐑛𐑦, 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑷𐑤𐑕𐑴 𐑥𐑹 𐑓𐑮𐑰𐑒𐑢𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑤𐑱𐑟 𐑩 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑐𐑩𐑟𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑑 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑤𐑶 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑢𐑧𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑩𐑓𐑧𐑯𐑕𐑦𐑝𐑤𐑦 𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑼 𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕 𐑕𐑴 𐑸𐑑𐑓𐑩𐑤, 𐑚𐑴𐑤𐑛, 𐑯 𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑗𐑦𐑝𐑩𐑕, 𐑨𐑟 𐑑 𐑤𐑰𐑛 𐑑 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑮𐑦𐑜𐑸𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑨𐑟 𐑞 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑛𐑱𐑯𐑡𐑼𐑩𐑕 𐑑 𐑩𐑑𐑨𐑒 𐑝 𐑷𐑤 𐑞 𐑯𐑴𐑯 𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑖𐑰𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑚.”</p>
    <p class="author">—·𐑓𐑮𐑧𐑛𐑼𐑦𐑒 ·𐑛𐑧𐑚𐑧𐑤 ·𐑚𐑧𐑯𐑩𐑑𐑕 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 ·𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡 ·𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑞 ·𐑜𐑤𐑴𐑚, 1840.</p>
 
    <p class="quote1">𐑪𐑒𐑑𐑴𐑚𐑼 13.  “𐑞𐑺 𐑖𐑰 𐑚𐑤𐑴𐑟,” 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑕𐑳𐑙 𐑬𐑑 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑-𐑣𐑧𐑛.</p>
    <p class="quoten">“𐑢𐑺 𐑩𐑢𐑱?” 𐑛𐑦𐑥𐑭𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑞 𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑦𐑯.</p>
    <p class="quoten">“𐑔𐑮𐑰 𐑐𐑶𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑪𐑓 𐑞 𐑤𐑰 𐑚𐑬, 𐑕𐑻.”</p>
    <p class="quoten">“𐑮𐑱𐑟 𐑳𐑐 𐑘𐑹 𐑢𐑰𐑤.  𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑛𐑦!”  “𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑛𐑦, 𐑕𐑻.”</p>
    <p class="quoten">“𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑-𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑩𐑣𐑶!  𐑛𐑵 𐑿 𐑕𐑰 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑯𐑬?”</p>
    <p class="quoten">“𐑲 𐑲, 𐑕𐑻!  𐑩 𐑖𐑴𐑤 𐑝 ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟!  𐑞𐑺 𐑖𐑰 𐑚𐑤𐑴𐑟!  𐑞𐑺 𐑖𐑰</p>
    <p class="quoten">𐑚𐑮𐑰𐑗𐑩𐑟!”</p>
    <p class="quoten">“𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑑! 𐑕𐑦𐑙 𐑬𐑑 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑑𐑲𐑥!”</p>
    <p class="quoten">“𐑲 ·𐑲, 𐑕𐑻!  𐑞𐑺 𐑖𐑰 𐑚𐑤𐑴𐑟! 𐑞𐑺—𐑞𐑺—<i>𐑞𐑸</i> 𐑖𐑰</p>
    <p class="quoten">𐑚𐑤𐑴𐑟—·𐑚𐑴𐑟—𐑚𐑴-𐑴-·𐑴𐑕!”</p>
    <p class="quoten">“𐑣𐑬 𐑓𐑸 𐑪𐑓?”</p>
    <p class="quoten">“𐑑𐑵 𐑥𐑲𐑤𐑟 𐑯 𐑩 𐑣𐑭𐑓.”</p>
    <p class="quoten">“𐑔𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑯 𐑤𐑲𐑑𐑯𐑦𐑙! 𐑕𐑴 𐑯𐑽!  𐑒𐑷𐑤 𐑷𐑤 𐑣𐑨𐑯𐑛𐑟.”</p>
    <p class="author">—J. ·𐑮𐑪𐑕 ·𐑚𐑮𐑬𐑯𐑟 ·𐑧𐑗𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑝 𐑩 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 ·𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑟. 1846.</p>

    <p>“𐑞 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑖𐑦𐑐 ·𐑜𐑤𐑴𐑚, 𐑪𐑯 𐑚𐑹𐑛 𐑝 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑝𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑤 𐑩𐑒𐑻𐑛 𐑞 𐑣𐑪𐑮𐑦𐑛 𐑑𐑮𐑨𐑯𐑟𐑨𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑢𐑰 𐑸 𐑩𐑚𐑬𐑑 𐑑 𐑮𐑦𐑤𐑱𐑑, 𐑚𐑦𐑤𐑪𐑙𐑛 𐑑 𐑞 𐑲𐑤𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑝 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑.”</p>
    <p class="author">—“𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑑𐑦𐑝 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑜𐑤𐑴𐑚 ·𐑥𐑿𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑦,” 𐑚𐑲 ·𐑤𐑱 𐑯 ·𐑣𐑳𐑕𐑦 𐑕𐑼𐑝𐑲𐑝𐑼𐑟. ⸰𐑱𐑛 1828.</p>

    <p>𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑢𐑳𐑯𐑕 𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑿𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑣𐑰 𐑣𐑨𐑛 𐑢𐑵𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛, 𐑣𐑰 𐑐𐑨𐑮𐑦𐑛 𐑞 𐑩𐑕𐑷𐑤𐑑 𐑓 𐑕𐑳𐑥 𐑑𐑲𐑥 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑩 𐑤𐑭𐑯𐑕; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑞 𐑓𐑘𐑫𐑼𐑾𐑕 𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑼 𐑨𐑑 𐑤𐑧𐑙𐑔 𐑮𐑳𐑖𐑑 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑; 𐑣𐑦𐑥𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓 𐑯 𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑮𐑱𐑛𐑟 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑐𐑮𐑦𐑟𐑻𐑝𐑛 𐑚𐑲 𐑤𐑰𐑐𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼 𐑢𐑧𐑯 𐑞𐑱 𐑕𐑷 𐑞 𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑧𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑦𐑑𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤.”</p>
    <p class="author">—𐑥𐑦𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑼𐑦 ·𐑡𐑻𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑝 ·𐑑𐑲𐑼𐑥𐑩𐑯 𐑯 ·𐑚𐑧𐑯𐑩𐑑.</p>

    <p>“·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑 𐑦𐑑𐑕𐑧𐑤𐑓,” 𐑕𐑧𐑛 ·𐑥𐑼 ·𐑢𐑧𐑚𐑕𐑑𐑼, “𐑦𐑟 𐑩 𐑝𐑧𐑮𐑦 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑯 𐑐𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑽 𐑐𐑹𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑯𐑨𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑼𐑩𐑕𐑑. 𐑞𐑺 𐑦𐑟 𐑩 𐑐𐑪𐑐𐑿𐑤𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑱𐑑 𐑹 𐑯𐑲𐑯 𐑔𐑬𐑟𐑩𐑯𐑛 𐑐𐑻𐑕𐑩𐑯𐑟 𐑤𐑦𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑽 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑕𐑰, 𐑨𐑛𐑦𐑙 𐑤𐑸𐑡𐑤𐑦 𐑧𐑝𐑮𐑦 𐑘𐑽 𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑯𐑨𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑩𐑤 𐑢𐑧𐑤𐑔 𐑚𐑲 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑤𐑛𐑩𐑕𐑑 𐑯 𐑥𐑴𐑕𐑑 𐑐𐑻𐑕𐑩𐑝𐑽𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑳𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑦.”</p>
    <p class="author">—𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑹𐑑 𐑝 ·𐑛𐑨𐑯𐑾𐑤 ·𐑢𐑧𐑚𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑟 ·𐑕𐑐𐑰𐑗 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 U. 𐑟. 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑩𐑑, 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑨𐑐𐑤𐑦𐑒𐑱𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑓 𐑞 ·𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑩 ·𐑚𐑮𐑱𐑒𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼 𐑨𐑑 ·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑. 1828.</p>

    <p>“𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑓𐑧𐑤 𐑛𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑣𐑦𐑥, 𐑯 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑚𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑛 𐑣𐑦𐑥 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 𐑥𐑴𐑥𐑧𐑯𐑑.”</p>
    <p class="author">—“𐑞 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 ·𐑒𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼𐑟, 𐑹 𐑞 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑥𐑩𐑯𐑟 ·𐑩𐑛𐑝𐑧𐑯𐑗𐑼𐑟 𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟 ·𐑚𐑲𐑪𐑜𐑮𐑩𐑓𐑦, 𐑜𐑨𐑞𐑼𐑛 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑣𐑴𐑥𐑢𐑼𐑛 ·𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑩𐑛𐑹 ·𐑐𐑮𐑧𐑚𐑩𐑤.” 𐑚𐑲 ·𐑮𐑧𐑝 ·𐑣𐑧𐑯𐑮𐑦 T. ·𐑗𐑰𐑝𐑼.</p>

    <p>“𐑦𐑓 𐑿 𐑥𐑱𐑒 𐑞 𐑤𐑰𐑕𐑑 𐑛𐑨𐑥 𐑚𐑦𐑑 𐑝 𐑯𐑶𐑟,” 𐑮𐑦𐑐𐑤𐑲𐑛 ·𐑕𐑨𐑥𐑿𐑩𐑤, “𐑲 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑕𐑧𐑯𐑛 𐑿 𐑑 𐑣𐑧𐑤.”</p>
    <p class="author">—𐑤𐑲𐑓 𐑝 ·𐑕𐑨𐑥𐑿𐑩𐑤 ·𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑕𐑑𐑪𐑒 (𐑞 𐑥𐑿𐑑𐑦𐑯𐑽), 𐑚𐑲 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑚𐑮𐑳𐑞𐑼, ·𐑢𐑦𐑤𐑾𐑥 ·𐑒𐑪𐑥𐑕𐑑𐑪𐑒. 𐑩𐑯𐑳𐑞𐑼 ·𐑝𐑻𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑖𐑦𐑐 ·𐑜𐑤𐑴𐑚 𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑑𐑦𐑝.</p>

    <p>“𐑞 𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑟 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑛𐑳𐑗 𐑯 ·𐑦𐑙𐑜𐑤𐑦𐑖 𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑯𐑹𐑞𐑼𐑯 ·𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯, 𐑦𐑯 𐑹𐑛𐑼, 𐑦𐑓 𐑐𐑪𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤, 𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑒𐑳𐑝𐑼 𐑩 𐑐𐑨𐑕𐑦𐑡 𐑔𐑮𐑵 𐑦𐑑 𐑑 ·𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑾, 𐑞𐑴 𐑞𐑱 𐑓𐑱𐑤𐑛 𐑝 𐑞𐑺 𐑥𐑱𐑯 𐑪𐑚𐑡𐑧𐑒𐑑, 𐑤𐑱𐑛-𐑴𐑐𐑩𐑯 𐑞 𐑣𐑷𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤.”</p>
    <p class="author">—·𐑥𐑩𐑒𐑳𐑤𐑩𐑒𐑕 ·𐑒𐑩𐑥𐑻𐑖𐑩𐑤 ·𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯𐑼𐑦.</p>

    <p>“𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑟 𐑸 𐑮𐑦𐑕𐑦𐑐𐑮𐑩𐑒𐑩𐑤; 𐑞 𐑚𐑷𐑤 𐑮𐑰𐑚𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑟, 𐑴𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑑 𐑚𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑓𐑹𐑢𐑼𐑛 𐑩𐑜𐑱𐑯; 𐑓 𐑯𐑬 𐑦𐑯 𐑤𐑱𐑦𐑙 𐑴𐑐𐑩𐑯 𐑞 𐑣𐑷𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑝 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑥𐑧𐑯 𐑕𐑰𐑥 𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑦𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑑𐑤𐑦 𐑣𐑦𐑑 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑯𐑿 𐑒𐑤𐑵𐑟 𐑑 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑕𐑱𐑥 𐑥𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑦𐑒 ·𐑯𐑹𐑔-·𐑢𐑧𐑕𐑑 ·𐑐𐑨𐑕𐑦𐑡.”</p>
    <p class="author">—𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 “𐑕𐑳𐑥𐑔𐑦𐑙” 𐑳𐑯𐑐𐑳𐑚𐑤𐑦𐑖𐑑.</p>

    <p>“𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑦𐑥𐑐𐑪𐑕𐑩𐑚𐑩𐑤 𐑑 𐑥𐑰𐑑 𐑩 𐑢𐑱𐑤-𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑪𐑯 𐑞 𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑬𐑑 𐑚𐑰𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑒 𐑚𐑲 𐑣𐑻 𐑯𐑽 𐑩𐑐𐑽𐑩𐑯𐑕. 𐑞 𐑝𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑤 𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑼 𐑖𐑹𐑑 𐑕𐑱𐑤, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑤𐑫𐑒-𐑬𐑑𐑕 𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑥𐑭𐑕𐑑-𐑣𐑧𐑛𐑟, 𐑰𐑜𐑼𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑒𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑢𐑲𐑛 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑐𐑨𐑯𐑕 𐑼𐑬𐑯𐑛 𐑞𐑧𐑥, 𐑣𐑨𐑟 𐑩 𐑑𐑴𐑑𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑛𐑦𐑓𐑼𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑺 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞𐑴𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑜𐑱𐑡𐑛 𐑦𐑯 𐑮𐑧𐑜𐑿𐑤𐑼 𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡.”</p>
    <p class="author">—𐑒𐑳𐑮𐑩𐑯𐑑𐑕 𐑯 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙. U.S. ·𐑧𐑒𐑕. 𐑧𐑒𐑕.</p>

    <p>“𐑐𐑦𐑛𐑧𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑾𐑯𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑝𐑦𐑕𐑦𐑯𐑦𐑑𐑦 𐑝 ·𐑤𐑳𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑯 𐑯 𐑧𐑤𐑕𐑢𐑺 𐑥𐑱 𐑮𐑧𐑒𐑩𐑤𐑧𐑒𐑑 𐑣𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑙 𐑕𐑰𐑯 𐑤𐑸𐑡 𐑒𐑻𐑝𐑛 𐑚𐑴𐑯𐑟 𐑕𐑧𐑑 𐑳𐑐𐑮𐑲𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑻𐑔, 𐑲𐑞𐑼 𐑑 𐑓𐑹𐑥 𐑸𐑗𐑩𐑟 𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑜𐑱𐑑𐑢𐑱𐑟, 𐑹 𐑧𐑯𐑑𐑮𐑩𐑯𐑕𐑩𐑟 𐑑 𐑨𐑤𐑒𐑴𐑝𐑟, 𐑯 𐑞𐑱 𐑥𐑱 𐑐𐑼𐑣𐑨𐑐𐑕 𐑣𐑨𐑝 𐑚𐑰𐑯 𐑑𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑢𐑻 𐑞 𐑮𐑦𐑚𐑟 𐑝 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟.”</p>
    <p class="author">—𐑑𐑱𐑤𐑟 𐑝 𐑩 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 ·𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡𐑼 𐑑 𐑞 ·𐑸𐑒𐑑𐑦𐑒 ·𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯.</p>

    <p>“𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑯𐑪𐑑 𐑑𐑦𐑤 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑𐑕 𐑮𐑩𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑐𐑼𐑕𐑿𐑑 𐑝 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟, 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑞 𐑢𐑲𐑑𐑕 𐑕𐑷 𐑞𐑺 𐑖𐑦𐑐 𐑦𐑯 𐑚𐑤𐑳𐑛𐑦 𐑐𐑩𐑟𐑧𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑝 𐑞 𐑕𐑨𐑝𐑦𐑡𐑩𐑟 𐑦𐑯𐑮𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑩𐑥𐑳𐑙 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑵.”</p>
    <p class="author">—𐑯𐑿𐑟𐑐𐑱𐑐𐑼 ·𐑩𐑒𐑬𐑯𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑯 ·𐑮𐑰𐑑𐑱𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑞 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤-·𐑖𐑦𐑐 ·𐑣𐑴𐑚𐑩𐑥𐑨𐑒.</p>

    <p>“𐑦𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑡𐑧𐑯𐑼𐑩𐑤𐑦 𐑢𐑧𐑤 𐑯𐑴𐑯 𐑞𐑨𐑑 𐑬𐑑 𐑝 𐑞 𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑟 𐑝 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑝𐑧𐑕𐑩𐑤𐑟 (·𐑩𐑥𐑧𐑮𐑦𐑒𐑩𐑯) 𐑓𐑿 𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑮𐑦𐑑𐑻𐑯 𐑦𐑯 𐑞 𐑖𐑦𐑐𐑕 𐑪𐑯 𐑚𐑹𐑛 𐑝 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑞𐑱 𐑛𐑦𐑐𐑸𐑑𐑩𐑛.”</p>
    <p class="author">—𐑒𐑮𐑵𐑟 𐑦𐑯 𐑩 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 ·𐑚𐑴𐑑.</p>

    <p>“𐑕𐑳𐑛𐑩𐑯𐑤𐑦 𐑩 𐑥𐑲𐑑𐑦 𐑥𐑨𐑕 𐑦𐑥𐑻𐑡𐑛 𐑓𐑮𐑪𐑥 𐑞 𐑢𐑷𐑑𐑼, 𐑯 𐑖𐑪𐑑 𐑳𐑐 𐑐𐑻𐑐𐑩𐑯𐑛𐑦𐑒𐑿𐑤𐑼𐑤𐑦 𐑦𐑯𐑑𐑵 𐑞 𐑺. 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑪𐑟 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤.”</p>
    <p class="author">—·𐑥𐑦𐑮𐑾𐑥 ·𐑒𐑪𐑓𐑦𐑯 𐑹 𐑞 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 ·𐑓𐑦𐑖𐑼𐑥𐑩𐑯.</p>

    <p>“𐑞 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑛 𐑑 𐑚𐑰 𐑖𐑫𐑼; 𐑚𐑳𐑑 𐑚𐑦𐑔𐑦𐑙𐑒 𐑿, 𐑣𐑬 𐑿 𐑢𐑫𐑛 𐑥𐑨𐑯𐑦𐑡 𐑩 𐑐𐑬𐑼𐑓𐑩𐑤 𐑳𐑯𐑚𐑮𐑴𐑒𐑩𐑯 𐑒𐑴𐑤𐑑, 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑞 𐑥𐑽 𐑩𐑐𐑤𐑲𐑩𐑯𐑕 𐑝 𐑩 𐑮𐑴𐑐 𐑑𐑲𐑛 𐑑 𐑞 𐑮𐑵𐑑 𐑝 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑑𐑱𐑤.”</p>
    <p class="author">—𐑩 ·𐑗𐑨𐑐𐑑𐑼 𐑪𐑯 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑯 ·𐑮𐑦𐑚𐑟 𐑯 ·𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑒𐑕.</p>

    <p>“𐑪𐑯 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑩𐑒𐑱𐑠𐑩𐑯 𐑲 𐑕𐑷 𐑑𐑵 𐑝 𐑞𐑰𐑟 𐑥𐑪𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑼𐑟 (𐑢𐑱𐑤𐑟) 𐑐𐑮𐑪𐑚𐑩𐑚𐑤𐑦 𐑥𐑱𐑤 𐑯 𐑓𐑰𐑥𐑱𐑤, 𐑕𐑤𐑴𐑤𐑦 𐑕𐑢𐑦𐑥𐑦𐑙, 𐑢𐑳𐑯 𐑭𐑓𐑑𐑼 𐑞 𐑳𐑞𐑼, 𐑢𐑦𐑞𐑦𐑯 𐑤𐑧𐑕 𐑞𐑨𐑯 𐑩 𐑕𐑑𐑴𐑯𐑟 𐑔𐑮𐑴 𐑝 𐑞 𐑖𐑹” (𐑑𐑧𐑮𐑩 ·𐑛𐑧𐑤 ·𐑓𐑢𐑱𐑜𐑴), “𐑴𐑝𐑼 𐑢𐑦𐑗 𐑞 𐑚𐑰𐑗 𐑑𐑮𐑰 𐑧𐑒𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑦𐑑𐑕 𐑚𐑮𐑭𐑯𐑗𐑩𐑟.”</p>
    <p class="author">—·𐑛𐑸𐑢𐑦𐑯𐑟 ·𐑝𐑶𐑦𐑡 𐑝 𐑩 ·𐑯𐑨𐑗𐑼𐑩𐑤𐑦𐑕𐑑.</p>

    <p>“'𐑕𐑑𐑻𐑯 𐑷𐑤!' 𐑦𐑒𐑕𐑒𐑤𐑱𐑥𐑛 𐑞 𐑥𐑱𐑑, 𐑨𐑟 𐑩𐑐𐑪𐑯 𐑑𐑻𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑣𐑧𐑛, 𐑣𐑰 𐑕𐑷 𐑞 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑧𐑯𐑛𐑩𐑛 𐑡𐑷𐑟 𐑝 𐑩 𐑤𐑸𐑡 ·𐑕𐑐𐑻𐑥 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 𐑒𐑤𐑴𐑟 𐑑 𐑞 𐑣𐑧𐑛 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑑, 𐑔𐑮𐑧𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑦𐑙 𐑦𐑑 𐑢𐑦𐑞 𐑦𐑯𐑕𐑑𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑛𐑦𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑳𐑒𐑖𐑩𐑯;—'·𐑕𐑑𐑻𐑯 𐑷𐑤, 𐑓 𐑘𐑹 𐑤𐑲𐑝𐑟!'”</p>
    <p class="author">—·𐑢𐑹𐑑𐑩𐑯 𐑞 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤 ·𐑒𐑦𐑤𐑼.</p>

    <p>“𐑕𐑴 𐑚𐑰 𐑗𐑽𐑦, 𐑥𐑲 𐑤𐑨𐑛𐑟, 𐑤𐑧𐑑 𐑘𐑹 𐑣𐑸𐑑𐑕 𐑯𐑧𐑝𐑼 𐑓𐑱𐑤, ·𐑢𐑲𐑤 𐑞 𐑚𐑴𐑤𐑛 𐑣𐑸𐑐𐑵𐑯𐑽 𐑦𐑟 𐑕𐑑𐑮𐑲𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑞 𐑢𐑱𐑤!”</p>
    <p class="author">—·𐑯𐑨𐑯𐑑𐑳𐑒𐑩𐑑 ·𐑕𐑪𐑙.</p>

    <p class="quote1">“𐑴, 𐑞 𐑮𐑺 𐑴𐑤𐑛 ·𐑢𐑱𐑤, 𐑥𐑦𐑛 𐑕𐑑𐑹𐑥 𐑯 𐑜𐑱𐑤</p>
    <p class="quoten">𐑦𐑯 𐑣𐑦𐑟 𐑴𐑖𐑩𐑯 𐑣𐑴𐑥 𐑢𐑦𐑤 𐑚𐑰</p>
    <p class="quoten">𐑩 𐑡𐑲𐑩𐑯𐑑 𐑦𐑯 𐑥𐑲𐑑, 𐑢𐑺 𐑥𐑲𐑑 𐑦𐑟 𐑮𐑲𐑑,</p>
    <p class="quoten">𐑯 ·𐑒𐑦𐑙 𐑝 𐑞 𐑚𐑬𐑯𐑛𐑤𐑩𐑕 𐑕𐑰.”</p>
    <p class="author">—𐑢𐑱𐑤 ·𐑕𐑪𐑙.</p>
  </body>
</html>
